books.md, before:

# Open Source Book/Paper/Reading Collections

## Books (en)

- [0xAX/linux-insides](https://github.com/0xAX/linux-insides): A little bit
  about a linux kernel
  ([gitbooks index](https://0xax.gitbooks.io/linux-insides/content/index.html))
- [probml/pml-book](https://github.com/probml/pml-book): "Probabilistic Machine
  Learning" - a book series by Kevin Murphy
  https://probml.github.io/pml-book/book2.html
- [mml-book/mml-book.github.io](https://github.com/mml-book/mml-book.github.io):
  Companion webpage to the book "Mathematics For Machine Learning"
  [pdf download](https://mml-book.com)
- [CamDavidsonPilon/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers](https://github.com/CamDavidsonPilon/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers):
  aka "Bayesian Methods for Hackers": An introduction to Bayesian methods +
  probabilistic programming with a computation/understanding-first,
  mathematics-second point of view. All in pure Python ;)
  [page](http://camdavidsonpilon.github.io/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers/)
- [AllenDowney/ThinkComplexity2](https://github.com/AllenDowney/ThinkComplexity2):
  Book and code for Think Complexity, 2nd edition
  [page](https://allendowney.github.io/ThinkComplexity2/)
- [rougier/from-python-to-numpy](https://github.com/rougier/from-python-to-numpy):
  An open-access book on numpy vectorization techniques, Nicolas P. Rougier,
  2017 <http://www.labri.fr/perso/nrougier/from-python-to-numpy>
- [rougier/scientific-visualization-book](https://github.com/rougier/scientific-visualization-book):
  An open access book on scientific visualization using python and matplotlib
  <https://www.labri.fr/perso/nrougier/scientific-visualization.html>
- [Probabilistic Numerics](https://www.probabilistic-numerics.org/textbooks/)
- [The Internals Online Books](https://books.japila.pl/): Welcome to “The
  Internals Of” Online Books project! 🤙 (Apache Spark, Spark Structured
  Streaming, Apache Kafka, Apache Beam)
- [Software Engineering Books](https://software-engineering-books.com/): I’ve
  been a software engineer for over 10 years now, and I’ve successfully passed
  through all stages of grief. I’m also an avid reader. This page contains my
  collection of books that have helped me the most throughout my career.
- [Elements of Programming](http://elementsofprogramming.com/): Decomposing
  programs into a system of algorithmic components
- [brazzy/floating-point-gui.de](https://github.com/brazzy/floating-point-gui.de):
  Website that provides concise answers to common questions about floating-point
  numbers. <http://floating-point-gui.de/>
  [Chinese Trsanlation: 《关于浮点运算：作为程序员都应该了解什么？》](https://github.com/cnrv/floating-point-guide)
- [chiphuyen/machine-learning-systems-design](https://github.com/chiphuyen/machine-learning-systems-design):
  A booklet on machine learning systems design with exercises. NOT the repo for
  the book "Designing Machine Learning Systems"
  <https://huyenchip.com/machine-learning-systems-design/toc.html>
- [graph-neural-networks/graph-neural-networks](https://github.com/graph-neural-networks/graph-neural-networks.github.io):
  This repo is for hosting our GNN book titled "Graph Neural Networks:
  Foundations, Frontiers, and Applications".
  <https://graph-neural-networks.github.io/index.html>
- [EffectOrientedProgramming/book](https://github.com/EffectOrientedProgramming/book):
  Effect-Oriented Programming: Creating Reliable Systems with Scala 3 and ZIO 2
- [kushaldas/lym](https://github.com/kushaldas/lym): Linux command line for you
  and me <https://lym.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>

## Books (zh_cn)

- [crazyangelo/Cathedral-and-Bazaar](https://github.com/crazyangelo/Cathedral-and-Bazaar):
  The Cathedral and the Bazaar 中文版
  [index](http://crazyangelo.github.io/Cathedral-and-Bazaar/)
- [Cpp-Club/Cxx_HOPL4_zh](https://github.com/Cpp-Club/Cxx_HOPL4_zh): Chinese
  translation of Bjarne Stroustrup's HOPL4 paper
- [sysprog21/cpumemory-zhtw](https://github.com/sysprog21/cpumemory-zhtw):
  Traditional Chinese translation of "What Every Programmer Should Know About
  Memory" [index](https://sysprog21.github.io/cpumemory-zhtw)
- [GuoYaxiang/craftinginterpreters_zh](https://github.com/GuoYaxiang/craftinginterpreters_zh):
  手撸解释器教程《Crafting Interpreters》中文翻译
- [yeasy/docker_practice](https://github.com/yeasy/docker_practice): Learn and
  understand Docker&Container technologies, with real DevOps practice! (in
  Chinese)
- [nndl/nndl.github.io](https://github.com/nndl/nndl.github.io): 《神经网络与深
  度学习》 邱锡鹏著 Neural Network and Deep Learning
  [page](https://nndl.github.io/)
- [qiangmzsx/Software-Engineering-at-Google](https://github.com/qiangmzsx/Software-Engineering-at-Google):
  《Software Engineering at Google》的中文翻译版本
- [sudongyuer/javascript-mental-models](https://github.com/sudongyuer/javascript-mental-models):
  💘 帮助你建立良好的 JavaScript 心智模型
  <https://sudongyuer.github.io/javascript-mental-models>
- [nevermosby/linux-bpf-learning](https://github.com/nevermosby/linux-bpf-learning):
  learn how to use BPF/eBPF
- [lonegunmanb/introduction-terraform](https://github.com/lonegunmanb/introduction-terraform):
  Introduction to terraform
  <https://lonegunmanb.github.io/introduction-terraform>
- [文科生也能懂的 Rust async 机制](https://blog.pan93.com/what-is-rust-async-cn/)

## Readings

- [qingsongedu/time-series-transformers-review](https://github.com/qingsongedu/time-series-transformers-review):
  A professionally curated list of awesome resources (paper, code, data, etc.)
  on transformers in time series.

Commit message:

Add two books from @liuxinyu95

books.md, after:

# Open Source Book/Paper/Reading Collections

## Books (en)

- [0xAX/linux-insides](https://github.com/0xAX/linux-insides): A little bit
  about a linux kernel
  ([gitbooks index](https://0xax.gitbooks.io/linux-insides/content/index.html))
- [probml/pml-book](https://github.com/probml/pml-book): "Probabilistic Machine
  Learning" - a book series by Kevin Murphy
  https://probml.github.io/pml-book/book2.html
- [mml-book/mml-book.github.io](https://github.com/mml-book/mml-book.github.io):
  Companion webpage to the book "Mathematics For Machine Learning"
  [pdf download](https://mml-book.com)
- [CamDavidsonPilon/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers](https://github.com/CamDavidsonPilon/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers):
  aka "Bayesian Methods for Hackers": An introduction to Bayesian methods +
  probabilistic programming with a computation/understanding-first,
  mathematics-second point of view. All in pure Python ;)
  [page](http://camdavidsonpilon.github.io/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers/)
- [AllenDowney/ThinkComplexity2](https://github.com/AllenDowney/ThinkComplexity2):
  Book and code for Think Complexity, 2nd edition
  [page](https://allendowney.github.io/ThinkComplexity2/)
- [rougier/from-python-to-numpy](https://github.com/rougier/from-python-to-numpy):
  An open-access book on numpy vectorization techniques, Nicolas P. Rougier,
  2017 <http://www.labri.fr/perso/nrougier/from-python-to-numpy>
- [rougier/scientific-visualization-book](https://github.com/rougier/scientific-visualization-book):
  An open access book on scientific visualization using python and matplotlib
  <https://www.labri.fr/perso/nrougier/scientific-visualization.html>
- [Probabilistic Numerics](https://www.probabilistic-numerics.org/textbooks/)
- [The Internals Online Books](https://books.japila.pl/): Welcome to “The
  Internals Of” Online Books project! 🤙 (Apache Spark, Spark Structured
  Streaming, Apache Kafka, Apache Beam)
- [Software Engineering Books](https://software-engineering-books.com/): I’ve
  been a software engineer for over 10 years now, and I’ve successfully passed
  through all stages of grief. I’m also an avid reader. This page contains my
  collection of books that have helped me the most throughout my career.
- [Elements of Programming](http://elementsofprogramming.com/): Decomposing
  programs into a system of algorithmic components
- [brazzy/floating-point-gui.de](https://github.com/brazzy/floating-point-gui.de):
  Website that provides concise answers to common questions about floating-point
  numbers. <http://floating-point-gui.de/>
  [Chinese Trsanlation: 《关于浮点运算：作为程序员都应该了解什么？》](https://github.com/cnrv/floating-point-guide)
- [chiphuyen/machine-learning-systems-design](https://github.com/chiphuyen/machine-learning-systems-design):
  A booklet on machine learning systems design with exercises. NOT the repo for
  the book "Designing Machine Learning Systems"
  <https://huyenchip.com/machine-learning-systems-design/toc.html>
- [graph-neural-networks/graph-neural-networks](https://github.com/graph-neural-networks/graph-neural-networks.github.io):
  This repo is for hosting our GNN book titled "Graph Neural Networks:
  Foundations, Frontiers, and Applications".
  <https://graph-neural-networks.github.io/index.html>
- [EffectOrientedProgramming/book](https://github.com/EffectOrientedProgramming/book):
  Effect-Oriented Programming: Creating Reliable Systems with Scala 3 and ZIO 2
- [kushaldas/lym](https://github.com/kushaldas/lym): Linux command line for you
  and me <https://lym.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>
- [liuxinyu95/AlgoXY](https://github.com/liuxinyu95/AlgoXY): Book of Elementary
  Algorithms and Data structures
- [liuxinyu95/unplugged](https://github.com/liuxinyu95/unplugged): Open book
  about math and programming.

## Books (zh_cn)

- [crazyangelo/Cathedral-and-Bazaar](https://github.com/crazyangelo/Cathedral-and-Bazaar):
  The Cathedral and the Bazaar 中文版
  [index](http://crazyangelo.github.io/Cathedral-and-Bazaar/)
- [Cpp-Club/Cxx_HOPL4_zh](https://github.com/Cpp-Club/Cxx_HOPL4_zh): Chinese
  translation of Bjarne Stroustrup's HOPL4 paper
- [sysprog21/cpumemory-zhtw](https://github.com/sysprog21/cpumemory-zhtw):
  Traditional Chinese translation of "What Every Programmer Should Know About
  Memory" [index](https://sysprog21.github.io/cpumemory-zhtw)
- [GuoYaxiang/craftinginterpreters_zh](https://github.com/GuoYaxiang/craftinginterpreters_zh):
  手撸解释器教程《Crafting Interpreters》中文翻译
- [yeasy/docker_practice](https://github.com/yeasy/docker_practice): Learn and
  understand Docker&Container technologies, with real DevOps practice! (in
  Chinese)
- [nndl/nndl.github.io](https://github.com/nndl/nndl.github.io): 《神经网络与深
  度学习》 邱锡鹏著 Neural Network and Deep Learning
  [page](https://nndl.github.io/)
- [qiangmzsx/Software-Engineering-at-Google](https://github.com/qiangmzsx/Software-Engineering-at-Google):
  《Software Engineering at Google》的中文翻译版本
- [sudongyuer/javascript-mental-models](https://github.com/sudongyuer/javascript-mental-models):
  💘 帮助你建立良好的 JavaScript 心智模型
  <https://sudongyuer.github.io/javascript-mental-models>
- [nevermosby/linux-bpf-learning](https://github.com/nevermosby/linux-bpf-learning):
  learn how to use BPF/eBPF
- [lonegunmanb/introduction-terraform](https://github.com/lonegunmanb/introduction-terraform):
  Introduction to terraform
  <https://lonegunmanb.github.io/introduction-terraform>
- [文科生也能懂的 Rust async 机制](https://blog.pan93.com/what-is-rust-async-cn/)

## Readings

- [qingsongedu/time-series-transformers-review](https://github.com/qingsongedu/time-series-transformers-review):
  A professionally curated list of awesome resources (paper, code, data, etc.)
  on transformers in time series.
