clang.md, before:

# C / Linux

## Resources

- [fffaraz/awesome-cpp](https://github.com/fffaraz/awesome-cpp): A curated list
  of awesome C++ (or C) frameworks, libraries, resources, and shiny things.
  Inspired by awesome-... stuff. <http://fffaraz.github.io/awesome-cpp/>

### Readings

- [beejjorgensen/bgc](https://github.com/beejjorgensen/bgc): Beej's Guide to C
  Programming source <https://beej.us/guide/bgc/html/split>
- [0xAX/linux-insides](https://github.com/0xAX/linux-insides): A little bit
  about a linux kernel
  ([gitbooks index](https://0xax.gitbooks.io/linux-insides/content/index.html))
- [nevermosby/linux-bpf-learning](https://github.com/nevermosby/linux-bpf-learning):
  learn how to use BPF/eBPF
- [Everything I wish I knew when learning C](https://tmewett.com/c-tips/)
- [C++ reference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/)
- [C reference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/c)
- [Clang documentation](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/)
- [brendangregg/perf-tools](https://github.com/brendangregg/perf-tools):
  Performance analysis tools based on Linux perf_events (aka perf) and ftrace
- [isocpp/CppCoreGuidelines](https://github.com/isocpp/CppCoreGuidelines): The
  C++ Core Guidelines are a set of tried-and-true guidelines, rules, and best
  practices about coding in C++
  <http://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines>
- [cpp-best-practices/cppbestpractices](https://github.com/cpp-best-practices/cppbestpractices):
  Collaborative Collection of C++ Best Practices. This online resource is part
  of Jason Turner's collection of C++ Best Practices resources. See README.md
  for more information.

### Books

- [A Tour of C++ (Third edition)](https://www.stroustrup.com/tour3.html): a
  brief tour of the C++ Programming language and its standard library for
  experienced programmers.
- [xiaoweiChen/The-Art-of-Writing-Efficient-Programs](https://github.com/xiaoweiChen/The-Art-of-Writing-Efficient-Programs):
  《The Art of Writing Efficient Programs》的非专业个人翻译
- [xiaoweiChen/CPP-Concurrency-In-Action-2ed-2019](https://github.com/xiaoweiChen/CPP-Concurrency-In-Action-2ed-2019):
  📖 作为对《C++ Concurrency in Action - SECOND EDITION》的中文翻译。
- [downdemo/Cpp-Concurrency-in-Action-2ed](https://github.com/downdemo/Cpp-Concurrency-in-Action-2ed):
  C++11/14/17/20 multithreading, involving operating system principles and
  concurrent programming technology.
  <https://downdemo.github.io/Cpp-Concurrency-in-Action-2ed>
- [xiaoweiChen/Modern-CMake-for-Cpp](https://github.com/xiaoweiChen/Modern-CMake-for-Cpp):
  《Modern CMake for C++》的非专业个人翻译
- [Cpp-Club/Cxx_HOPL4_zh](https://github.com/Cpp-Club/Cxx_HOPL4_zh): Chinese
  translation of Bjarne Stroustrup's HOPL4 paper
- [Learn C++](https://www.learncpp.com/): LearnCpp.com is a free website devoted
  to teaching you how to program in C++.

## Toolchain

### Build

- [rsms/llvmbox](https://github.com/rsms/llvmbox): Self contained, fully static
  llvm tools & libs
- [rui314/mold](https://github.com/rui314/mold): mold: A Modern Linker
- [conan-io/conan](https://github.com/conan-io/conan): Conan - The open-source
  C/C++ package manager <https://conan.io>

### Analyzer

- [Valgrind](https://valgrind.org/): Valgrind is an instrumentation framework
  for building dynamic analysis tools. There are Valgrind tools that can
  automatically detect many memory management and threading bugs, and profile
  your programs in detail.
- [Valgrind's Tool Suite](https://valgrind.org/info/tools.html): The Valgrind
  distribution includes the following debugging and profiling tools: Memcheck,
  Cachegrind, Callgrind, Massif, Helgrind, DRD, DHAT, etc ...
- [Helgrind](https://valgrind.org/docs/manual/hg-manual.html): a thread error
  detector
- [google/sanitizers](https://github.com/google/sanitizers): AddressSanitizer,
  ThreadSanitizer, MemorySanitizer
- [Clang Static Analyzer](https://clang-analyzer.llvm.org/): The Clang Static
  Analyzer is a source code analysis tool that finds bugs in C, C++, and
  Objective-C programs. <https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangStaticAnalyzer.html>

### Debug

- [hugsy/gef](https://github.com/hugsy/gef): GEF (GDB Enhanced Features) - a
  modern experience for GDB with advanced debugging capabilities for exploit
  devs & reverse engineers on Linux <https://hugsy.github.io/gef>
- [PlatformLab/NanoLog](https://github.com/PlatformLab/NanoLog): Nanolog is an
  extremely performant nanosecond scale logging system for C++ that exposes a
  simple printf-like API.
- [compiler-explorer/compiler-explorer](https://github.com/compiler-explorer/compiler-explorer):
  Run compilers interactively from your web browser and interact with the
  assembly <https://godbolt.org>
- [decompiler-explorer/decompiler-explorer](https://github.com/decompiler-explorer/decompiler-explorer):
  Decompiler Explorer! Compare tools on the forefront of static analysis, now in
  your web browser! <https://dogbolt.org>

### Performance profile

- [koute/bytehound](https://github.com/koute/bytehound): A memory profiler for
  Linux.
- [rubrikinc/wachy](https://github.com/rubrikinc/wachy): A UI for eBPF-based
  performance debugging
- [magic-trace](https://github.com/janestreet/magic-trace): magic-trace collects
  and displays high-resolution traces of what a process is doing
- [KDAB/hotspot](https://github.com/KDAB/hotspot): The Linux perf GUI for
  performance analysis.
- [dendibakh/perf-ninja](https://github.com/dendibakh/perf-ninja): This is an
  online course where you can learn and master the skill of low-level
  performance analysis and tuning.
- [grahamking/perf-ninja-rs](https://github.com/grahamking/perf-ninja-rs): Rust
  port of dendibakh/perf-ninja
- [twitter/rezolus](https://github.com/twitter/rezolus): Systems performance
  telemetry
- [Mellanox/sockperf](https://github.com/Mellanox/sockperf): Network
  Benchmarking Utility
- [google/perfetto](https://github.com/google/perfetto): Performance
  instrumentation and tracing for Android, Linux and Chrome
  <https://www.perfetto.dev>
- [sirupsen/napkin-math](https://github.com/sirupsen/napkin-math): Techniques
  and numbers for estimating system's performance from first-principles
  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IxkSlnrRFqc>

## OS level

- [cksystemsteaching/selfie](https://github.com/cksystemsteaching/selfie): An
  educational software system of a tiny self-compiling C compiler, a tiny
  self-executing RISC-V emulator, and a tiny self-hosting RISC-V hypervisor.
  <http://selfie.cs.uni-salzburg.at>

## System programming

- [Memory Deep Dive: Memory Subsystem Bandwidth](https://frankdenneman.nl/2015/02/19/memory-deep-dive-memory-subsystem-bandwidth/)
- [Introduction 2016 NUMA Deep Dive Series](https://frankdenneman.nl/2016/07/06/introduction-2016-numa-deep-dive-series/)
- [google/brotli](https://github.com/google/brotli): Brotli compression format
- [madler/pigz](https://github.com/madler/pigz): A parallel implementation of
  gzip for modern multi-processor, multi-core machines. <http://zlib.net/pigz>
- [scandum/blitsort](https://github.com/scandum/blitsort): Blitsort is an
  in-place stable adaptive rotate mergesort / quicksort.
- [Blosc/c-blosc2](https://github.com/Blosc/c-blosc2): A fast, compressed,
  persistent binary data store library for C. <https://www.blosc.org>
- [NVIDIA/thrust](https://github.com/NVIDIA/thrust): The C++ parallel algorithms
  library.
- [greg7mdp/parallel-hashmap](https://github.com/greg7mdp/parallel-hashmap): A
  family of header-only, very fast and memory-friendly hashmap and btree
  containers. <https://greg7mdp.github.io/parallel-hashmap>
- [Amanieu/asyncplusplus](https://github.com/Amanieu/asyncplusplus): Async++
  concurrency framework for C++11
- [mitchellh/libxev](https://github.com/mitchellh/libxev): libxev is a
  cross-platform, high-performance event loop that provides abstractions for
  non-blocking IO, timers, events, and more and works on Linux (io_uring or
  epoll), macOS (kqueue), and Wasm + WASI. Available as both a Zig and C API.
- [microsoft/mimalloc](https://github.com/microsoft/mimalloc): mimalloc is a
  compact general purpose allocator with excellent performance.
- [iovisor/bcc](https://github.com/iovisor/bcc): BCC - Tools for BPF-based Linux
  IO analysis, networking, monitoring, and more

## SIMD

- [google/highway](https://github.com/google/highway): Performance-portable,
  length-agnostic SIMD with runtime dispatch
- [xtensor-stack/xsimd](https://github.com/xtensor-stack/xsimd): C++ wrappers
  for SIMD intrinsics and parallelized, optimized mathematical functions (SSE,
  AVX, AVX512, NEON, SVE)
- [simdutf/simdutf](https://github.com/simdutf/simdutf): Unicode routines (UTF8,
  UTF16, UTF32): billions of characters per second using SSE2, AVX2, NEON,
  AVX-512. Part of Node.js. <https://simdutf.github.io/simdutf>
- [VcDevel/std-simd](https://github.com/VcDevel/std-simd):
  std::experimental::simd for GCC [ISO/IEC TS 19570:2018]
- [mattkretz/wg21-papers](https://github.com/mattkretz/wg21-papers): my papers
  to WG21 — the C++ committee
- [simd-everywhere/simde](https://github.com/simd-everywhere/simde):
  Implementations of SIMD instruction sets for systems which don't natively
  support them. <https://simd-everywhere.github.io/blog>

## ???

- [microsoft/checkedc](https://github.com/microsoft/checkedc): Checked C is an
  extension to C that lets programmers write C code that is guaranteed by the
  compiler to be type-safe. The goal is to let people easily make their existing
  C code type-safe and eliminate entire classes of errors. Checked C does not
  address use-after-free errors.
  <https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/project/checked-c>
- [diffblue/cbmc](https://github.com/diffblue/cbmc): C Bounded Model Checker
  <https://diffblue.github.io/cbmc>

Commit message:

Add concurrencpp, connexion, lalrpop and lampepfl/async

clang.md, after:

# C / Linux

## Resources

- [fffaraz/awesome-cpp](https://github.com/fffaraz/awesome-cpp): A curated list
  of awesome C++ (or C) frameworks, libraries, resources, and shiny things.
  Inspired by awesome-... stuff. <http://fffaraz.github.io/awesome-cpp/>

### Readings

- [beejjorgensen/bgc](https://github.com/beejjorgensen/bgc): Beej's Guide to C
  Programming source <https://beej.us/guide/bgc/html/split>
- [0xAX/linux-insides](https://github.com/0xAX/linux-insides): A little bit
  about a linux kernel
  ([gitbooks index](https://0xax.gitbooks.io/linux-insides/content/index.html))
- [nevermosby/linux-bpf-learning](https://github.com/nevermosby/linux-bpf-learning):
  learn how to use BPF/eBPF
- [Everything I wish I knew when learning C](https://tmewett.com/c-tips/)
- [C++ reference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/)
- [C reference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/c)
- [Clang documentation](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/)
- [brendangregg/perf-tools](https://github.com/brendangregg/perf-tools):
  Performance analysis tools based on Linux perf_events (aka perf) and ftrace
- [isocpp/CppCoreGuidelines](https://github.com/isocpp/CppCoreGuidelines): The
  C++ Core Guidelines are a set of tried-and-true guidelines, rules, and best
  practices about coding in C++
  <http://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines>
- [cpp-best-practices/cppbestpractices](https://github.com/cpp-best-practices/cppbestpractices):
  Collaborative Collection of C++ Best Practices. This online resource is part
  of Jason Turner's collection of C++ Best Practices resources. See README.md
  for more information.
- [David-Haim/concurrencpp](https://github.com/David-Haim/concurrencpp): Modern
  concurrency for C++. Tasks, executors, timers and C++20 coroutines to rule
  them all

### Books

- [A Tour of C++ (Third edition)](https://www.stroustrup.com/tour3.html): a
  brief tour of the C++ Programming language and its standard library for
  experienced programmers.
- [xiaoweiChen/The-Art-of-Writing-Efficient-Programs](https://github.com/xiaoweiChen/The-Art-of-Writing-Efficient-Programs):
  《The Art of Writing Efficient Programs》的非专业个人翻译
- [xiaoweiChen/CPP-Concurrency-In-Action-2ed-2019](https://github.com/xiaoweiChen/CPP-Concurrency-In-Action-2ed-2019):
  📖 作为对《C++ Concurrency in Action - SECOND EDITION》的中文翻译。
- [downdemo/Cpp-Concurrency-in-Action-2ed](https://github.com/downdemo/Cpp-Concurrency-in-Action-2ed):
  C++11/14/17/20 multithreading, involving operating system principles and
  concurrent programming technology.
  <https://downdemo.github.io/Cpp-Concurrency-in-Action-2ed>
- [xiaoweiChen/Modern-CMake-for-Cpp](https://github.com/xiaoweiChen/Modern-CMake-for-Cpp):
  《Modern CMake for C++》的非专业个人翻译
- [Cpp-Club/Cxx_HOPL4_zh](https://github.com/Cpp-Club/Cxx_HOPL4_zh): Chinese
  translation of Bjarne Stroustrup's HOPL4 paper
- [Learn C++](https://www.learncpp.com/): LearnCpp.com is a free website devoted
  to teaching you how to program in C++.

## Toolchain

### Build

- [rsms/llvmbox](https://github.com/rsms/llvmbox): Self contained, fully static
  llvm tools & libs
- [rui314/mold](https://github.com/rui314/mold): mold: A Modern Linker
- [conan-io/conan](https://github.com/conan-io/conan): Conan - The open-source
  C/C++ package manager <https://conan.io>

### Analyzer

- [Valgrind](https://valgrind.org/): Valgrind is an instrumentation framework
  for building dynamic analysis tools. There are Valgrind tools that can
  automatically detect many memory management and threading bugs, and profile
  your programs in detail.
- [Valgrind's Tool Suite](https://valgrind.org/info/tools.html): The Valgrind
  distribution includes the following debugging and profiling tools: Memcheck,
  Cachegrind, Callgrind, Massif, Helgrind, DRD, DHAT, etc ...
- [Helgrind](https://valgrind.org/docs/manual/hg-manual.html): a thread error
  detector
- [google/sanitizers](https://github.com/google/sanitizers): AddressSanitizer,
  ThreadSanitizer, MemorySanitizer
- [Clang Static Analyzer](https://clang-analyzer.llvm.org/): The Clang Static
  Analyzer is a source code analysis tool that finds bugs in C, C++, and
  Objective-C programs. <https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangStaticAnalyzer.html>

### Debug

- [hugsy/gef](https://github.com/hugsy/gef): GEF (GDB Enhanced Features) - a
  modern experience for GDB with advanced debugging capabilities for exploit
  devs & reverse engineers on Linux <https://hugsy.github.io/gef>
- [PlatformLab/NanoLog](https://github.com/PlatformLab/NanoLog): Nanolog is an
  extremely performant nanosecond scale logging system for C++ that exposes a
  simple printf-like API.
- [compiler-explorer/compiler-explorer](https://github.com/compiler-explorer/compiler-explorer):
  Run compilers interactively from your web browser and interact with the
  assembly <https://godbolt.org>
- [decompiler-explorer/decompiler-explorer](https://github.com/decompiler-explorer/decompiler-explorer):
  Decompiler Explorer! Compare tools on the forefront of static analysis, now in
  your web browser! <https://dogbolt.org>

### Performance profile

- [koute/bytehound](https://github.com/koute/bytehound): A memory profiler for
  Linux.
- [rubrikinc/wachy](https://github.com/rubrikinc/wachy): A UI for eBPF-based
  performance debugging
- [magic-trace](https://github.com/janestreet/magic-trace): magic-trace collects
  and displays high-resolution traces of what a process is doing
- [KDAB/hotspot](https://github.com/KDAB/hotspot): The Linux perf GUI for
  performance analysis.
- [dendibakh/perf-ninja](https://github.com/dendibakh/perf-ninja): This is an
  online course where you can learn and master the skill of low-level
  performance analysis and tuning.
- [grahamking/perf-ninja-rs](https://github.com/grahamking/perf-ninja-rs): Rust
  port of dendibakh/perf-ninja
- [twitter/rezolus](https://github.com/twitter/rezolus): Systems performance
  telemetry
- [Mellanox/sockperf](https://github.com/Mellanox/sockperf): Network
  Benchmarking Utility
- [google/perfetto](https://github.com/google/perfetto): Performance
  instrumentation and tracing for Android, Linux and Chrome
  <https://www.perfetto.dev>
- [sirupsen/napkin-math](https://github.com/sirupsen/napkin-math): Techniques
  and numbers for estimating system's performance from first-principles
  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IxkSlnrRFqc>

## OS level

- [cksystemsteaching/selfie](https://github.com/cksystemsteaching/selfie): An
  educational software system of a tiny self-compiling C compiler, a tiny
  self-executing RISC-V emulator, and a tiny self-hosting RISC-V hypervisor.
  <http://selfie.cs.uni-salzburg.at>

## System programming

- [Memory Deep Dive: Memory Subsystem Bandwidth](https://frankdenneman.nl/2015/02/19/memory-deep-dive-memory-subsystem-bandwidth/)
- [Introduction 2016 NUMA Deep Dive Series](https://frankdenneman.nl/2016/07/06/introduction-2016-numa-deep-dive-series/)
- [google/brotli](https://github.com/google/brotli): Brotli compression format
- [madler/pigz](https://github.com/madler/pigz): A parallel implementation of
  gzip for modern multi-processor, multi-core machines. <http://zlib.net/pigz>
- [scandum/blitsort](https://github.com/scandum/blitsort): Blitsort is an
  in-place stable adaptive rotate mergesort / quicksort.
- [Blosc/c-blosc2](https://github.com/Blosc/c-blosc2): A fast, compressed,
  persistent binary data store library for C. <https://www.blosc.org>
- [NVIDIA/thrust](https://github.com/NVIDIA/thrust): The C++ parallel algorithms
  library.
- [greg7mdp/parallel-hashmap](https://github.com/greg7mdp/parallel-hashmap): A
  family of header-only, very fast and memory-friendly hashmap and btree
  containers. <https://greg7mdp.github.io/parallel-hashmap>
- [Amanieu/asyncplusplus](https://github.com/Amanieu/asyncplusplus): Async++
  concurrency framework for C++11
- [mitchellh/libxev](https://github.com/mitchellh/libxev): libxev is a
  cross-platform, high-performance event loop that provides abstractions for
  non-blocking IO, timers, events, and more and works on Linux (io_uring or
  epoll), macOS (kqueue), and Wasm + WASI. Available as both a Zig and C API.
- [microsoft/mimalloc](https://github.com/microsoft/mimalloc): mimalloc is a
  compact general purpose allocator with excellent performance.
- [iovisor/bcc](https://github.com/iovisor/bcc): BCC - Tools for BPF-based Linux
  IO analysis, networking, monitoring, and more

## SIMD

- [google/highway](https://github.com/google/highway): Performance-portable,
  length-agnostic SIMD with runtime dispatch
- [xtensor-stack/xsimd](https://github.com/xtensor-stack/xsimd): C++ wrappers
  for SIMD intrinsics and parallelized, optimized mathematical functions (SSE,
  AVX, AVX512, NEON, SVE)
- [simdutf/simdutf](https://github.com/simdutf/simdutf): Unicode routines (UTF8,
  UTF16, UTF32): billions of characters per second using SSE2, AVX2, NEON,
  AVX-512. Part of Node.js. <https://simdutf.github.io/simdutf>
- [VcDevel/std-simd](https://github.com/VcDevel/std-simd):
  std::experimental::simd for GCC [ISO/IEC TS 19570:2018]
- [mattkretz/wg21-papers](https://github.com/mattkretz/wg21-papers): my papers
  to WG21 — the C++ committee
- [simd-everywhere/simde](https://github.com/simd-everywhere/simde):
  Implementations of SIMD instruction sets for systems which don't natively
  support them. <https://simd-everywhere.github.io/blog>

## ???

- [microsoft/checkedc](https://github.com/microsoft/checkedc): Checked C is an
  extension to C that lets programmers write C code that is guaranteed by the
  compiler to be type-safe. The goal is to let people easily make their existing
  C code type-safe and eliminate entire classes of errors. Checked C does not
  address use-after-free errors.
  <https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/project/checked-c>
- [diffblue/cbmc](https://github.com/diffblue/cbmc): C Bounded Model Checker
  <https://diffblue.github.io/cbmc>
