cloud.md, before:

# Cloud

## Container

- [ncopa/su-exec](https://github.com/ncopa/su-exec): switch user and group id
  and exec
- [tianon/gosu](https://github.com/tianon/gosu): Simple Go-based
  setuid+setgid+setgroups+exec
- [oasislinux/oasis](https://github.com/oasislinux/oasis): a small
  statically-linked linux system
- [containrrr/watchtower](https://github.com/containrrr/watchtower): A process
  for automating Docker container base image updates.
  <https://containrrr.dev/watchtower/>
- [kata-containers/kata-containers](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers):
  Kata Containers version 2.x repository. Kata Containers is an open source
  project and community working to build a standard implementation of
  lightweight Virtual Machines (VMs) that feel and perform like containers, but
  provide the workload isolation and security advantages of VMs.
  <https://katacontainers.io/ >
- [railwayapp/nixpacks](https://github.com/railwayapp/nixpacks): App source +
  Nix packages + Docker = Image <https://nixpacks.com/>
- [google/gvisor](https://github.com/google/gvisor): Application Kernel for
  Containers <https://gvisor.dev/>

## Routing

- [traefik/traefik](https://github.com/traefik/traefik): The Cloud Native
  Application Proxy

## Cloud native

- [cloudflare/miniflare](https://github.com/cloudflare/miniflare): 🔥
  Fully-local simulator for Cloudflare Workers
- [cloudflare/wrangler2](https://github.com/cloudflare/wrangler2): ⛅️ The CLI
  for Cloudflare Workers®
- [octodns/octodns](https://github.com/octodns/octodns): Tools for managing DNS
  across multiple providers
- [drivendataorg/cloudpathlib](https://github.com/drivendataorg/cloudpathlib):
  Python pathlib-style classes for cloud storage services such as Amazon S3,
  Azure Blob Storage, and Google Cloud Storage.
  <https://cloudpathlib.drivendata.org>
- [benbjohnson/litestream](https://github.com/benbjohnson/litestream): Streaming
  replication for SQLite. <https://litestream.io/>
- [supabase/supabase](https://github.com/supabase/supabase): The open source
  Firebase alternative. Follow to stay updated about our public Beta.
  <https://supabase.com/>
- [lensapp/lens](https://github.com/lensapp/lens): Lens - The way the world runs
  Kubernetes <https://k8slens.dev/>

## Infrastructure as Code

- [servian/aws-auto-cleanup](https://github.com/servian/aws-auto-cleanup):
  Programmatically delete AWS resources based on an allowlist and time to live
  (TTL) settings
- [localstack/localstack](https://github.com/localstack/localstack): 💻 A fully
  functional local AWS cloud stack. Develop and test your cloud & Serverless
  apps offline!
- [gruntwork-io/terragrunt](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt):
  Terragrunt is a thin wrapper for Terraform that provides extra tools for
  working with multiple Terraform modules.
- [snyk/driftctl](https://github.com/snyk/driftctl): Detect, track and alert on
  infrastructure drift <https://driftctl.com/>
- [someengineering/resoto](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto): Resoto
  creates an inventory of your cloud, provides deep visibility, and reacts to
  changes in your infrastructure. ⚡️ <https://resoto.com/>
- [camptocamp/terraboard](https://github.com/camptocamp/terraboard): 🌍 📋 A web
  dashboard to inspect Terraform States <https://terraboard.io>
- [cycloidio/terracognita](https://github.com/cycloidio/terracognita): Reads
  from existing public and private cloud providers (reverse Terraform) and
  generates your infrastructure as code on Terraform configuration
- [aquasecurity/tfsec](https://github.com/aquasecurity/tfsec): Security scanner
  for your Terraform code <https://aquasecurity.github.io/tfsec>
- [picatz/terraform-google-nomad](https://github.com/picatz/terraform-google-nomad):
  📗 Terraform Module for Nomad clusters with Consul on GCP
- [turbot/steampipe](https://github.com/turbot/steampipe): Use SQL to instantly
  query your cloud services (AWS, Azure, GCP and more). Open source CLI. No DB
  required. <https://steampipe.io/>

## Utils

- [skyplane-project/skyplane](https://github.com/skyplane-project/skyplane): 🔥
  Blazing fast bulk data transfers between any cloud 🔥 <https://skyplane.org/>

Commit message:

Add `cadvisor`, `tangent` and `deluge`

cloud.md, after:

# Cloud

## Container

- [ncopa/su-exec](https://github.com/ncopa/su-exec): switch user and group id
  and exec
- [tianon/gosu](https://github.com/tianon/gosu): Simple Go-based
  setuid+setgid+setgroups+exec
- [oasislinux/oasis](https://github.com/oasislinux/oasis): a small
  statically-linked linux system
- [containrrr/watchtower](https://github.com/containrrr/watchtower): A process
  for automating Docker container base image updates.
  <https://containrrr.dev/watchtower/>
- [kata-containers/kata-containers](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers):
  Kata Containers version 2.x repository. Kata Containers is an open source
  project and community working to build a standard implementation of
  lightweight Virtual Machines (VMs) that feel and perform like containers, but
  provide the workload isolation and security advantages of VMs.
  <https://katacontainers.io/ >
- [railwayapp/nixpacks](https://github.com/railwayapp/nixpacks): App source +
  Nix packages + Docker = Image <https://nixpacks.com/>
- [google/gvisor](https://github.com/google/gvisor): Application Kernel for
  Containers <https://gvisor.dev/>
- [google/cadvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor): Analyzes resource usage
  and performance characteristics of running containers.

## Routing

- [traefik/traefik](https://github.com/traefik/traefik): The Cloud Native
  Application Proxy

## Cloud native

- [cloudflare/miniflare](https://github.com/cloudflare/miniflare): 🔥
  Fully-local simulator for Cloudflare Workers
- [cloudflare/wrangler2](https://github.com/cloudflare/wrangler2): ⛅️ The CLI
  for Cloudflare Workers®
- [octodns/octodns](https://github.com/octodns/octodns): Tools for managing DNS
  across multiple providers
- [drivendataorg/cloudpathlib](https://github.com/drivendataorg/cloudpathlib):
  Python pathlib-style classes for cloud storage services such as Amazon S3,
  Azure Blob Storage, and Google Cloud Storage.
  <https://cloudpathlib.drivendata.org>
- [benbjohnson/litestream](https://github.com/benbjohnson/litestream): Streaming
  replication for SQLite. <https://litestream.io/>
- [supabase/supabase](https://github.com/supabase/supabase): The open source
  Firebase alternative. Follow to stay updated about our public Beta.
  <https://supabase.com/>
- [lensapp/lens](https://github.com/lensapp/lens): Lens - The way the world runs
  Kubernetes <https://k8slens.dev/>

## Infrastructure as Code

- [servian/aws-auto-cleanup](https://github.com/servian/aws-auto-cleanup):
  Programmatically delete AWS resources based on an allowlist and time to live
  (TTL) settings
- [localstack/localstack](https://github.com/localstack/localstack): 💻 A fully
  functional local AWS cloud stack. Develop and test your cloud & Serverless
  apps offline!
- [gruntwork-io/terragrunt](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt):
  Terragrunt is a thin wrapper for Terraform that provides extra tools for
  working with multiple Terraform modules.
- [snyk/driftctl](https://github.com/snyk/driftctl): Detect, track and alert on
  infrastructure drift <https://driftctl.com/>
- [someengineering/resoto](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto): Resoto
  creates an inventory of your cloud, provides deep visibility, and reacts to
  changes in your infrastructure. ⚡️ <https://resoto.com/>
- [camptocamp/terraboard](https://github.com/camptocamp/terraboard): 🌍 📋 A web
  dashboard to inspect Terraform States <https://terraboard.io>
- [cycloidio/terracognita](https://github.com/cycloidio/terracognita): Reads
  from existing public and private cloud providers (reverse Terraform) and
  generates your infrastructure as code on Terraform configuration
- [aquasecurity/tfsec](https://github.com/aquasecurity/tfsec): Security scanner
  for your Terraform code <https://aquasecurity.github.io/tfsec>
- [picatz/terraform-google-nomad](https://github.com/picatz/terraform-google-nomad):
  📗 Terraform Module for Nomad clusters with Consul on GCP
- [turbot/steampipe](https://github.com/turbot/steampipe): Use SQL to instantly
  query your cloud services (AWS, Azure, GCP and more). Open source CLI. No DB
  required. <https://steampipe.io/>

## Utils

- [skyplane-project/skyplane](https://github.com/skyplane-project/skyplane): 🔥
  Blazing fast bulk data transfers between any cloud 🔥 <https://skyplane.org/>
