enterprise.md, before:

# Enterprise-grade tools

## Certificate Management

- [smallstep/certificates](https://github.com/smallstep/certificates): 🛡️ A
  private certificate authority (X.509 & SSH) & ACME server for secure automated
  certificate management, so you can use TLS everywhere & SSO for SSH.
  <https://smallstep.com/certificates>
- [smallstep/cli](https://github.com/smallstep/cli): 🧰 A zero trust swiss army
  knife for working with X509, OAuth, JWT, OATH OTP, etc.
  <https://smallstep.com/cli>
- [Sectigo certificate manager](https://sectigo.com/enterprise-solutions/certificate-manager):
  Automated Certificate Lifecycle Management for the Modern Enterprise
- [Keyfactor](https://www.keyfactor.com/): Find, control, and automate every
  machine identity with Keyfactor, the leader in crypto-agility and PKI
  as-a-Service.
- [hyperledger/fabric-ca](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-ca): a
  Certificate Authority for Hyperledger Fabric. zh-cn:
  <https://hyperledgercn.github.io/hyperledgerDocs/ca-setup_zh>
- [FiloSottile/mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert): A simple
  zero-config tool to make locally trusted development certificates with any
  names you'd like. <https://mkcert.dev/>
- [soulteary/certs-maker](https://github.com/soulteary/certs-maker): Tiny, easy
  SSL self-signed tools, ~3MB Size. Generate a self-hosted/dev certificate
  through configuration.
  <https://soulteary.com/2021/02/06/how-to-make-and-use-a-self-signed-certificate.html>
- [cert-manager/cert-manager](https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager):
  Automatically provision and manage TLS certificates in Kubernetes
  <https://cert-manager.io/>

## Enterprise access control

- [Indent](https://indent.com): On-demand access without the wait. Indent
  provides team members with on-demand access to cloud apps and infrastructure
  in seconds, not days.
- [teamhanko/hanko](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko): A passkey-first
  approach to authentication that takes you on the journey beyond passwords. For
  better security, conversion rates, and happier users. <https://hanko.io/>
- [build-trust/ockam](https://github.com/build-trust/ockam): Orchestrate
  end-to-end encryption, mutual authentication, key management, credential
  management & authorization policy enforcement — at scale. <https://ockam.io/>
- [cerbos/cerbos](https://github.com/cerbos/cerbos): Cerbos is the open core,
  language-agnostic, scalable authorization solution that makes user permissions
  and authorization simple to implement and manage by writing context-aware
  access control policies for your application resources. <https://cerbos.dev/>
- [ContainerSSH/ContainerSSH](https://github.com/ContainerSSH/ContainerSSH):
  ContainerSSH: Launch containers on demand <https://containerssh.io/>
- [logto-io/logto](https://github.com/logto-io/logto): 🧑‍🚀 Logto helps you build
  the sign-in, auth, and user identity within minutes. We provide an OIDC-based
  identity service and the end-user experience with username, phone number,
  email, and social sign-in, for web and native apps. <https://logto.io/>
- [Infisical/infisical](https://github.com/Infisical/infisical): ♾ Infisical is
  an open-source, end-to-end encrypted tool to sync environment variables across
  your team and infrastructure. <https://infisical.com/>
- [openfga/openfga](https://github.com/openfga/openfga): A high performance and
  flexible authorization/permission engine built for developers and inspired by
  Google Zanzibar <https://openfga.dev/>
- [kanidm/kanidm](https://github.com/kanidm/kanidm): Kanidm: A simple, secure
  and fast identity management platform
- [jumpserver/jumpserver](https://github.com/jumpserver/jumpserver): JumpServer
  是广受欢迎的开源堡垒机，是符合 4A 规范的专业运维安全审计系统。
  <http://www.jumpserver.org/>
- [greenpau/caddy-security](https://github.com/greenpau/caddy-security): 🔐
  Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting (AAA) App and Plugin for Caddy
  v2. 💎 Implements Form-Based, Basic, Local, LDAP, OpenID Connect, OAuth 2.0
  (Github, Google, Facebook, Okta, etc.), SAML Authentication. MFA/2FA with App
  Authenticators and Yubico. 💎 Authorization with JWT/PASETO tokens. 🔐
  <https://authp.github.io/>

## Dev tools

- [quicktype/quicktype](https://github.com/quicktype/quicktype): Generate types
  and converters from JSON, Schema, and GraphQL <https://app.quicktype.io/>
- [cirruslabs/tart](https://github.com/cirruslabs/tart): macOS VMs on Apple
  Silicon to use in CI and other automations
- [coroot/coroot](https://github.com/coroot/coroot): A monitoring and
  troubleshooting tool for microservice architectures.
  <https://coroot.com/docs/coroot-community-edition>
- [volatilityfoundation/volatility3](https://github.com/volatilityfoundation/volatility3):
  Volatility 3.0 development <http://volatilityfoundation.org/>
- [OpenAPITools/openapi-generator](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator):
  OpenAPI Generator allows generation of API client libraries (SDK generation),
  server stubs, documentation and configuration automatically given an OpenAPI
  Spec (v2, v3) <https://openapi-generator.tech/>
- [argilla-io/argilla](https://github.com/argilla-io/argilla): ✨ Open-source
  tool for data-centric NLP. Argilla helps domain experts and data teams to
  build better NLP datasets in less time. <https://docs.argilla.io/>
- [facebook/sapling](https://github.com/facebook/sapling): A Scalable,
  User-Friendly Source Control System.
- [stoplightio/spectral](https://github.com/stoplightio/spectral): A flexible
  JSON/YAML linter for creating automated style guides, with baked in support
  for OpenAPI v3.1, v3.0, and v2.0 as well as AsyncAPI v2.x.
  <https://stoplight.io/spectral>
- [Kong/insomnia](https://github.com/Kong/insomnia): The open-source,
  cross-platform API client for GraphQL, REST, WebSockets and gRPC.
  <https://insomnia.rest/>
- [getezy/ezy](https://github.com/getezy/ezy): 🔥 GUI client for gRPC/gRPC-Web
  <https://getezy.dev/>
- [biscuit-auth/biscuit](https://github.com/biscuit-auth/biscuit): delegated,
  decentralized, capabilities based authorization token
- [tweag/nickel](https://github.com/tweag/nickel): Better configuration for less
  <https://nickel-lang.org>
- [grafana/phlare](https://github.com/grafana/phlare): 🔥 horizontally-scalable,
  highly-available, multi-tenant continuous profiling aggregation system
- [markdoc/markdoc](https://github.com/markdoc/markdoc): A powerful, flexible,
  Markdown-based authoring framework. <https://markdoc.dev/>
- [hashicorp-forge/hermes](https://github.com/hashicorp-forge/hermes): A
  document management system

## DevOps

- [netbox-community/netbox](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox): The
  premiere source of truth powering network automation. Open source under
  Apache 2. <https://netbox.dev/>
- [redpanda-data/console](https://github.com/redpanda-data/console): Redpanda
  Console is a developer-friendly UI for managing your Kafka/Redpanda workloads.
  Console gives you a simple, interactive approach for gaining visibility into
  your topics, masking data, managing consumer groups, and exploring real-time
  data with time-travel debugging.
- [aiven/karapace](https://github.com/aiven/karapace): Karapace - Your Apache
  Kafka® essentials in one tool <https://karapace.io/>
- [aiven/klaw](https://github.com/aiven/klaw): Klaw, the latest OS tool by
  Aiven, helps enterprises cope with Apache Kafka(r) topics, schema registry and
  connectors governance by introducing roles/authorizations to users of various
  teams of an org. <https://www.klaw-project.io/>
- [novuhq/novu](https://github.com/novuhq/novu): 🚀 The open-source
  notifications infrastructure. A fully-featured microservice to send SMS,
  E-mail, Slack and Push notifications. Embeddable notification center for React
  with real-time updates, content management, and much more...
  <https://novu.co/>
- [svix/svix-webhooks](https://github.com/svix/svix-webhooks): The
  enterprise-ready webhooks service 🦀 <https://www.svix.com/>
- [jitsucom/jitsu](https://github.com/jitsucom/jitsu): Jitsu is an open-source
  Segment alternative. Fully-scriptable data ingestion engine for modern data
  teams. Set-up a real-time data pipeline in minutes, not days
  <https://jitsu.com/>
- [triggerdotdev/trigger.dev](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev): ✨
  Trigger.dev is an open-source platform that makes it easy for developers to
  create event-driven background tasks directly in their code.
  <https://trigger.dev/>
- [backstage/backstage](https://github.com/backstage/backstage): Backstage is an
  open platform for building developer portals <https://backstage.io/>

### Pipelines / Workflow

- [orchest/orchest](https://github.com/orchest/orchest): Build data pipelines,
  the easy way 🛠️ <https://orchest.io/>
- [n8n-io/n8n](https://github.com/n8n-io/n8n): Free and open fair-code licensed
  node based Workflow Automation Tool. Easily automate tasks across different
  services. <https://n8n.io>
- [PrefectHQ/prefect](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect): The easiest way to
  automate your data <https://prefect.io/>
- [dagster-io/dagster](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster): An orchestration
  platform for the development, production, and observation of data assets.
  <https://dagster.io/>
- [mage-ai/mage-ai](https://github.com/mage-ai/mage-ai): 🧙 A modern replacement
  for Airflow. <https://www.mage.ai/>
- [uber/cadence](https://github.com/uber/cadence): Cadence is a distributed,
  scalable, durable, and highly available orchestration engine to execute
  asynchronous long-running business logic in a scalable and resilient way.
  <https://cadenceworkflow.io/>
- [temporalio/temporal](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal): Temporal
  service <https://docs.temporal.io/>

### Uptime / Monitoring

- [Atlassian - statuspage](https://www.atlassian.com/software/statuspage): Build
  trust with every incident
- [instatus](https://instatus.com/): A GIANT LEAP FOR STATUS PAGES
- [louislam/uptime-kuma](https://github.com/louislam/uptime-kuma): A fancy
  self-hosted monitoring tool <https://uptime.kuma.pet/>
- [upptime/upptime](https://github.com/upptime/upptime): ⬆️ Free uptime monitor
  and status page powered by GitHub <https://upptime.js.org/>
- [ivbeg/awesome-status-pages](https://github.com/ivbeg/awesome-status-pages):
  Awesome list of status page open source software, services and public status
  pages of major internet companies
- [naiba/nezha](https://github.com/naiba/nezha): :trollface: Self-hosted,
  lightweight server and website monitoring and O&M tool
  <https://ops.naibahq.com/>
- [Better Stack](https://betterstack.com/): Reliability is the ultimate feature.
- [Oh Dear](https://ohdear.app/): the all-in-one monitoring tool for your entire
  website

### Logging / Metrics / APM

- [keyval-dev/odigos](https://github.com/keyval-dev/odigos): Fix Production
  Issues Faster 🔎. Get distributed traces, metrics and logs for any application
  in minutes. No code changes needed! <https://keyval.dev/>
- [getsentry/sentry](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry): Developer-first error
  tracking and performance monitoring <https://sentry.io/>
- [SigNoz/signoz](https://github.com/SigNoz/signoz): SigNoz is an open-source
  APM. It helps developers monitor their applications & troubleshoot problems,
  an open-source alternative to DataDog, NewRelic, etc. 🔥 🖥. 👉 Open source
  Application Performance Monitoring (APM) & Observability tool
  <https://signoz.io/>

### Logger search and analytics

- [manticoresoftware/manticoresearch](https://github.com/manticoresoftware/manticoresearch):
  Easy to use open source fast database for search | Good alternative to
  Elasticsearch now | Drop-in replacement for E in the ELK soon
  <https://manticoresearch.com/>
- [parseablehq/parseable](https://github.com/parseablehq/parseable):
  Lightweight, high performance, cloud native alternative to Elasticsearch.
  <https://parseable.io/>
- [quickwit-oss/quickwit](https://github.com/quickwit-oss/quickwit):
  Cloud-native search engine for log management & analytics
  <https://quickwit.io>
- [usefathom/fathom](https://github.com/usefathom/fathom): Fathom Lite. Simple,
  privacy-focused website analytics. Built with Golang & Preact.
  <https://usefathom.com/>
- [plausible/analytics](https://github.com/plausible/analytics): Simple,
  open-source, lightweight (< 1 KB) and privacy-friendly web analytics
  alternative to Google Analytics. <https://plausible.io/>

## Build systems

- [thought-machine/please](https://github.com/thought-machine/please):
  High-performance extensible build system for reproducible multi-language
  builds. <https://please.build/>
- [pantsbuild/pants](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants): The Pantsbuild
  developer workflow system <https://www.pantsbuild.org/>
- [ninja-build/ninja](https://github.com/ninja-build/ninja): a small build
  system with a focus on speed <https://ninja-build.org/>
- [DeterminateSystems/zero-to-nix](https://github.com/DeterminateSystems/zero-to-nix):
  An unofficial, opinionated, gentle introduction to Nix (@NixOS) from
  Determinate Systems <https://zero-to-nix.com/>

### GitHub Action

- [docker/metadata-action](https://github.com/docker/metadata-action): GitHub
  Action to extract metadata (tags, labels) from Git reference and GitHub events
  for Docker

## Audit

- [libyear](https://libyear.com/): A **simple** measure of software dependency
  freshness. It is a **single number** telling you how up-to-date your
  dependencies are.
- [renovatebot/renovate](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate): Universal
  dependency update tool that fits into your workflows.
  <https://renovatebot.com/>

## How te a leader

- [jorgef/engineeringladders](https://github.com/jorgef/engineeringladders): A
  framework for Engineering Managers

## Modern Data Stack

- [dbt](https://www.getdbt.com/): Transforming data. Transforming teams. dbt™
  helps data teams work like software engineers—to ship trusted data, faster.
- [evidence-dev/evidence](https://github.com/evidence-dev/evidence): Evidence
  enables analysts to deliver a polished business intelligence system using SQL
  and markdown <https://evidence.dev/>

### Visualize frontend / BI

- [metabase/metabase](https://github.com/metabase/metabase): The simplest,
  fastest way to get business intelligence and analytics to everyone in your
  company 😋 <https://metabase.com/>
- [getredash/redash](https://github.com/getredash/redash): Make Your Company
  Data Driven. Connect to any data source, easily visualize, dashboard and share
  your data. <http://redash.io/>
- [apache/superset](https://github.com/apache/superset): Apache Superset is a
  Data Visualization and Data Exploration Platform
  <https://superset.apache.org/>
- [Kanaries/Rath](https://github.com/Kanaries/Rath): Automated data exploratory
  analysis and visualization tools. <https://kanaries.net/>

### Data quality

- [awslabs/deequ](https://github.com/awslabs/deequ): Deequ is a library built on
  top of Apache Spark for defining "unit tests for data", which measure data
  quality in large datasets.
- [great-expectations/great_expectations](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations):
  Always know what to expect from your data. <https://docs.greatexpectations.io>
- [unionai-oss/pandera](https://github.com/unionai-oss/pandera): A light-weight,
  flexible, and expressive statistical data testing library
  <https://www.union.ai/pandera>
- [deepchecks/deepchecks](https://github.com/deepchecks/deepchecks): Tests for
  Continuous Validation of ML Models & Data. Deepchecks is a Python package for
  comprehensively validating your machine learning models and data with minimal
  effort. <https://docs.deepchecks.com/>

Commit message:

Add nextra, fp-ssc-course and effect-zoo

enterprise.md, after:

# Enterprise-grade tools

## Certificate Management

- [smallstep/certificates](https://github.com/smallstep/certificates): 🛡️ A
  private certificate authority (X.509 & SSH) & ACME server for secure automated
  certificate management, so you can use TLS everywhere & SSO for SSH.
  <https://smallstep.com/certificates>
- [smallstep/cli](https://github.com/smallstep/cli): 🧰 A zero trust swiss army
  knife for working with X509, OAuth, JWT, OATH OTP, etc.
  <https://smallstep.com/cli>
- [Sectigo certificate manager](https://sectigo.com/enterprise-solutions/certificate-manager):
  Automated Certificate Lifecycle Management for the Modern Enterprise
- [Keyfactor](https://www.keyfactor.com/): Find, control, and automate every
  machine identity with Keyfactor, the leader in crypto-agility and PKI
  as-a-Service.
- [hyperledger/fabric-ca](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-ca): a
  Certificate Authority for Hyperledger Fabric. zh-cn:
  <https://hyperledgercn.github.io/hyperledgerDocs/ca-setup_zh>
- [FiloSottile/mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert): A simple
  zero-config tool to make locally trusted development certificates with any
  names you'd like. <https://mkcert.dev/>
- [soulteary/certs-maker](https://github.com/soulteary/certs-maker): Tiny, easy
  SSL self-signed tools, ~3MB Size. Generate a self-hosted/dev certificate
  through configuration.
  <https://soulteary.com/2021/02/06/how-to-make-and-use-a-self-signed-certificate.html>
- [cert-manager/cert-manager](https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager):
  Automatically provision and manage TLS certificates in Kubernetes
  <https://cert-manager.io/>

## Enterprise access control

- [Indent](https://indent.com): On-demand access without the wait. Indent
  provides team members with on-demand access to cloud apps and infrastructure
  in seconds, not days.
- [teamhanko/hanko](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko): A passkey-first
  approach to authentication that takes you on the journey beyond passwords. For
  better security, conversion rates, and happier users. <https://hanko.io/>
- [build-trust/ockam](https://github.com/build-trust/ockam): Orchestrate
  end-to-end encryption, mutual authentication, key management, credential
  management & authorization policy enforcement — at scale. <https://ockam.io/>
- [cerbos/cerbos](https://github.com/cerbos/cerbos): Cerbos is the open core,
  language-agnostic, scalable authorization solution that makes user permissions
  and authorization simple to implement and manage by writing context-aware
  access control policies for your application resources. <https://cerbos.dev/>
- [ContainerSSH/ContainerSSH](https://github.com/ContainerSSH/ContainerSSH):
  ContainerSSH: Launch containers on demand <https://containerssh.io/>
- [logto-io/logto](https://github.com/logto-io/logto): 🧑‍🚀 Logto helps you build
  the sign-in, auth, and user identity within minutes. We provide an OIDC-based
  identity service and the end-user experience with username, phone number,
  email, and social sign-in, for web and native apps. <https://logto.io/>
- [Infisical/infisical](https://github.com/Infisical/infisical): ♾ Infisical is
  an open-source, end-to-end encrypted tool to sync environment variables across
  your team and infrastructure. <https://infisical.com/>
- [openfga/openfga](https://github.com/openfga/openfga): A high performance and
  flexible authorization/permission engine built for developers and inspired by
  Google Zanzibar <https://openfga.dev/>
- [kanidm/kanidm](https://github.com/kanidm/kanidm): Kanidm: A simple, secure
  and fast identity management platform
- [jumpserver/jumpserver](https://github.com/jumpserver/jumpserver): JumpServer
  是广受欢迎的开源堡垒机，是符合 4A 规范的专业运维安全审计系统。
  <http://www.jumpserver.org/>
- [greenpau/caddy-security](https://github.com/greenpau/caddy-security): 🔐
  Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting (AAA) App and Plugin for Caddy
  v2. 💎 Implements Form-Based, Basic, Local, LDAP, OpenID Connect, OAuth 2.0
  (Github, Google, Facebook, Okta, etc.), SAML Authentication. MFA/2FA with App
  Authenticators and Yubico. 💎 Authorization with JWT/PASETO tokens. 🔐
  <https://authp.github.io/>

## Dev tools

- [quicktype/quicktype](https://github.com/quicktype/quicktype): Generate types
  and converters from JSON, Schema, and GraphQL <https://app.quicktype.io/>
- [cirruslabs/tart](https://github.com/cirruslabs/tart): macOS VMs on Apple
  Silicon to use in CI and other automations
- [coroot/coroot](https://github.com/coroot/coroot): A monitoring and
  troubleshooting tool for microservice architectures.
  <https://coroot.com/docs/coroot-community-edition>
- [volatilityfoundation/volatility3](https://github.com/volatilityfoundation/volatility3):
  Volatility 3.0 development <http://volatilityfoundation.org/>
- [OpenAPITools/openapi-generator](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator):
  OpenAPI Generator allows generation of API client libraries (SDK generation),
  server stubs, documentation and configuration automatically given an OpenAPI
  Spec (v2, v3) <https://openapi-generator.tech/>
- [argilla-io/argilla](https://github.com/argilla-io/argilla): ✨ Open-source
  tool for data-centric NLP. Argilla helps domain experts and data teams to
  build better NLP datasets in less time. <https://docs.argilla.io/>
- [facebook/sapling](https://github.com/facebook/sapling): A Scalable,
  User-Friendly Source Control System.
- [stoplightio/spectral](https://github.com/stoplightio/spectral): A flexible
  JSON/YAML linter for creating automated style guides, with baked in support
  for OpenAPI v3.1, v3.0, and v2.0 as well as AsyncAPI v2.x.
  <https://stoplight.io/spectral>
- [Kong/insomnia](https://github.com/Kong/insomnia): The open-source,
  cross-platform API client for GraphQL, REST, WebSockets and gRPC.
  <https://insomnia.rest/>
- [getezy/ezy](https://github.com/getezy/ezy): 🔥 GUI client for gRPC/gRPC-Web
  <https://getezy.dev/>
- [biscuit-auth/biscuit](https://github.com/biscuit-auth/biscuit): delegated,
  decentralized, capabilities based authorization token
- [tweag/nickel](https://github.com/tweag/nickel): Better configuration for less
  <https://nickel-lang.org>
- [grafana/phlare](https://github.com/grafana/phlare): 🔥 horizontally-scalable,
  highly-available, multi-tenant continuous profiling aggregation system

## Documents

- [markdoc/markdoc](https://github.com/markdoc/markdoc): A powerful, flexible,
  Markdown-based authoring framework. <https://markdoc.dev/>
- [hashicorp-forge/hermes](https://github.com/hashicorp-forge/hermes): A
  document management system
- [shuding/nextra](https://github.com/shuding/nextra): Simple, powerful and
  flexible site generation framework with everything you love from Next.js.
  <https://nextra.site/>
- [BookStackApp/BookStack](https://github.com/BookStackApp/BookStack): A
  platform to create documentation/wiki content built with PHP & Laravel
  <https://www.bookstackapp.com/>

## DevOps

- [netbox-community/netbox](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox): The
  premiere source of truth powering network automation. Open source under
  Apache 2. <https://netbox.dev/>
- [redpanda-data/console](https://github.com/redpanda-data/console): Redpanda
  Console is a developer-friendly UI for managing your Kafka/Redpanda workloads.
  Console gives you a simple, interactive approach for gaining visibility into
  your topics, masking data, managing consumer groups, and exploring real-time
  data with time-travel debugging.
- [aiven/karapace](https://github.com/aiven/karapace): Karapace - Your Apache
  Kafka® essentials in one tool <https://karapace.io/>
- [aiven/klaw](https://github.com/aiven/klaw): Klaw, the latest OS tool by
  Aiven, helps enterprises cope with Apache Kafka(r) topics, schema registry and
  connectors governance by introducing roles/authorizations to users of various
  teams of an org. <https://www.klaw-project.io/>
- [novuhq/novu](https://github.com/novuhq/novu): 🚀 The open-source
  notifications infrastructure. A fully-featured microservice to send SMS,
  E-mail, Slack and Push notifications. Embeddable notification center for React
  with real-time updates, content management, and much more...
  <https://novu.co/>
- [svix/svix-webhooks](https://github.com/svix/svix-webhooks): The
  enterprise-ready webhooks service 🦀 <https://www.svix.com/>
- [jitsucom/jitsu](https://github.com/jitsucom/jitsu): Jitsu is an open-source
  Segment alternative. Fully-scriptable data ingestion engine for modern data
  teams. Set-up a real-time data pipeline in minutes, not days
  <https://jitsu.com/>
- [triggerdotdev/trigger.dev](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev): ✨
  Trigger.dev is an open-source platform that makes it easy for developers to
  create event-driven background tasks directly in their code.
  <https://trigger.dev/>
- [backstage/backstage](https://github.com/backstage/backstage): Backstage is an
  open platform for building developer portals <https://backstage.io/>

### Pipelines / Workflow

- [orchest/orchest](https://github.com/orchest/orchest): Build data pipelines,
  the easy way 🛠️ <https://orchest.io/>
- [n8n-io/n8n](https://github.com/n8n-io/n8n): Free and open fair-code licensed
  node based Workflow Automation Tool. Easily automate tasks across different
  services. <https://n8n.io>
- [PrefectHQ/prefect](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect): The easiest way to
  automate your data <https://prefect.io/>
- [dagster-io/dagster](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster): An orchestration
  platform for the development, production, and observation of data assets.
  <https://dagster.io/>
- [mage-ai/mage-ai](https://github.com/mage-ai/mage-ai): 🧙 A modern replacement
  for Airflow. <https://www.mage.ai/>
- [uber/cadence](https://github.com/uber/cadence): Cadence is a distributed,
  scalable, durable, and highly available orchestration engine to execute
  asynchronous long-running business logic in a scalable and resilient way.
  <https://cadenceworkflow.io/>
- [temporalio/temporal](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal): Temporal
  service <https://docs.temporal.io/>

### Uptime / Monitoring

- [Atlassian - statuspage](https://www.atlassian.com/software/statuspage): Build
  trust with every incident
- [instatus](https://instatus.com/): A GIANT LEAP FOR STATUS PAGES
- [louislam/uptime-kuma](https://github.com/louislam/uptime-kuma): A fancy
  self-hosted monitoring tool <https://uptime.kuma.pet/>
- [upptime/upptime](https://github.com/upptime/upptime): ⬆️ Free uptime monitor
  and status page powered by GitHub <https://upptime.js.org/>
- [ivbeg/awesome-status-pages](https://github.com/ivbeg/awesome-status-pages):
  Awesome list of status page open source software, services and public status
  pages of major internet companies
- [naiba/nezha](https://github.com/naiba/nezha): :trollface: Self-hosted,
  lightweight server and website monitoring and O&M tool
  <https://ops.naibahq.com/>
- [Better Stack](https://betterstack.com/): Reliability is the ultimate feature.
- [Oh Dear](https://ohdear.app/): the all-in-one monitoring tool for your entire
  website

### Logging / Metrics / APM

- [keyval-dev/odigos](https://github.com/keyval-dev/odigos): Fix Production
  Issues Faster 🔎. Get distributed traces, metrics and logs for any application
  in minutes. No code changes needed! <https://keyval.dev/>
- [getsentry/sentry](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry): Developer-first error
  tracking and performance monitoring <https://sentry.io/>
- [SigNoz/signoz](https://github.com/SigNoz/signoz): SigNoz is an open-source
  APM. It helps developers monitor their applications & troubleshoot problems,
  an open-source alternative to DataDog, NewRelic, etc. 🔥 🖥. 👉 Open source
  Application Performance Monitoring (APM) & Observability tool
  <https://signoz.io/>

### Logger search and analytics

- [manticoresoftware/manticoresearch](https://github.com/manticoresoftware/manticoresearch):
  Easy to use open source fast database for search | Good alternative to
  Elasticsearch now | Drop-in replacement for E in the ELK soon
  <https://manticoresearch.com/>
- [parseablehq/parseable](https://github.com/parseablehq/parseable):
  Lightweight, high performance, cloud native alternative to Elasticsearch.
  <https://parseable.io/>
- [quickwit-oss/quickwit](https://github.com/quickwit-oss/quickwit):
  Cloud-native search engine for log management & analytics
  <https://quickwit.io>
- [usefathom/fathom](https://github.com/usefathom/fathom): Fathom Lite. Simple,
  privacy-focused website analytics. Built with Golang & Preact.
  <https://usefathom.com/>
- [plausible/analytics](https://github.com/plausible/analytics): Simple,
  open-source, lightweight (< 1 KB) and privacy-friendly web analytics
  alternative to Google Analytics. <https://plausible.io/>

## Build systems

- [thought-machine/please](https://github.com/thought-machine/please):
  High-performance extensible build system for reproducible multi-language
  builds. <https://please.build/>
- [pantsbuild/pants](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants): The Pantsbuild
  developer workflow system <https://www.pantsbuild.org/>
- [ninja-build/ninja](https://github.com/ninja-build/ninja): a small build
  system with a focus on speed <https://ninja-build.org/>
- [DeterminateSystems/zero-to-nix](https://github.com/DeterminateSystems/zero-to-nix):
  An unofficial, opinionated, gentle introduction to Nix (@NixOS) from
  Determinate Systems <https://zero-to-nix.com/>
- [tweag/jupyenv](https://github.com/tweag/jupyenv): Declarative and
  reproducible Jupyter environments - powered by Nix <https://jupyenv.io/>

### GitHub Action

- [docker/metadata-action](https://github.com/docker/metadata-action): GitHub
  Action to extract metadata (tags, labels) from Git reference and GitHub events
  for Docker

## Audit

- [libyear](https://libyear.com/): A **simple** measure of software dependency
  freshness. It is a **single number** telling you how up-to-date your
  dependencies are.
- [renovatebot/renovate](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate): Universal
  dependency update tool that fits into your workflows.
  <https://renovatebot.com/>

## How te a leader

- [jorgef/engineeringladders](https://github.com/jorgef/engineeringladders): A
  framework for Engineering Managers

## Modern Data Stack

- [dbt](https://www.getdbt.com/): Transforming data. Transforming teams. dbt™
  helps data teams work like software engineers—to ship trusted data, faster.
- [evidence-dev/evidence](https://github.com/evidence-dev/evidence): Evidence
  enables analysts to deliver a polished business intelligence system using SQL
  and markdown <https://evidence.dev/>

### Visualize frontend / BI

- [metabase/metabase](https://github.com/metabase/metabase): The simplest,
  fastest way to get business intelligence and analytics to everyone in your
  company 😋 <https://metabase.com/>
- [getredash/redash](https://github.com/getredash/redash): Make Your Company
  Data Driven. Connect to any data source, easily visualize, dashboard and share
  your data. <http://redash.io/>
- [apache/superset](https://github.com/apache/superset): Apache Superset is a
  Data Visualization and Data Exploration Platform
  <https://superset.apache.org/>
- [Kanaries/Rath](https://github.com/Kanaries/Rath): Automated data exploratory
  analysis and visualization tools. <https://kanaries.net/>

### Data quality

- [awslabs/deequ](https://github.com/awslabs/deequ): Deequ is a library built on
  top of Apache Spark for defining "unit tests for data", which measure data
  quality in large datasets.
- [great-expectations/great_expectations](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations):
  Always know what to expect from your data. <https://docs.greatexpectations.io>
- [unionai-oss/pandera](https://github.com/unionai-oss/pandera): A light-weight,
  flexible, and expressive statistical data testing library
  <https://www.union.ai/pandera>
- [deepchecks/deepchecks](https://github.com/deepchecks/deepchecks): Tests for
  Continuous Validation of ML Models & Data. Deepchecks is a Python package for
  comprehensively validating your machine learning models and data with minimal
  effort. <https://docs.deepchecks.com/>
