fp.md, before:

# The Curse of Strong Typing

## Books

- [winitzki/sofp](https://github.com/winitzki/sofp): A free book: "The Science
  of Functional Programming"

## Haskell

- [kowainik/relude](https://github.com/kowainik/relude): 🌀 Safe, performant,
  user-friendly and lightweight Haskell standard library
  <https://kowainik.github.io/projects/relude>
- [commercialhaskell/rio](https://github.com/commercialhaskell/rio): A standard
  library for Haskell
- [fpco/unliftio](https://github.com/fpco/unliftio): The MonadUnliftIO typeclass
  for unlifting monads to IO
- [composewell/streamly](https://github.com/composewell/streamly): Dataflow
  programming and declarative concurrency <https://streamly.composewell.com/>
- [well-typed/optics](https://github.com/well-typed/optics): Optics as an
  abstract interface
- [haskell-effectful/effectful](https://github.com/haskell-effectful/effectful):
  An easy to use, fast extensible effects library with seamless integration with
  the existing Haskell ecosystem.
- [lexi-lambda/eff](https://github.com/lexi-lambda/eff): 🚧 a work in progress
  effect system for Haskell 🚧

### Web

- [monadicsystems/okapi](https://github.com/monadicsystems/okapi): A web
  microframework for Haskell based on monadic parsing <https://www.okapi.wiki/>

### Other good libs

- [ndmitchell/shake](https://github.com/ndmitchell/shake): Shake build system
  <http://shakebuild.com/>
- [dhall-lang/dhall-haskell](https://github.com/dhall-lang/dhall-haskell):
  Maintainable configuration files <https://dhall-lang.org/>

## Typescript

- [gcanti/fp-ts](https://github.com/gcanti/fp-ts): Functional programming in
  TypeScript
- [Effect-TS/core](https://github.com/Effect-TS/core): A Fully-fledged
  functional effect system for typescript with a rich standard library
- [gigobyte/purify](https://github.com/gigobyte/purify): Functional programming
  library for TypeScript <https://gigobyte.github.io/purify>

## Experimental languages

- [koka-lang/koka](https://github.com/koka-lang/koka): Koka language compiler
  and interpreter <https://koka-lang.org/>
- [Kindelia/HVM](https://github.com/Kindelia/HVM): A massively parallel, optimal
  functional runtime in Rust

Commit message:

Add `ocaml/eio` and `neograd`

fp.md, after:

# The Curse of Strong Typing

## Books

- [winitzki/sofp](https://github.com/winitzki/sofp): A free book: "The Science
  of Functional Programming"

## Effect system

- [ocaml-multicore/eio](https://github.com/ocaml-multicore/eio):Effects-based
  direct-style IO for multicore OCaml
- [haskell-effectful/effectful](https://github.com/haskell-effectful/effectful):
  An easy to use, fast extensible effects library with seamless integration with
  the existing Haskell ecosystem.
- [lexi-lambda/eff](https://github.com/lexi-lambda/eff): 🚧 a work in progress
  effect system for Haskell 🚧

## Haskell

- [kowainik/relude](https://github.com/kowainik/relude): 🌀 Safe, performant,
  user-friendly and lightweight Haskell standard library
  <https://kowainik.github.io/projects/relude>
- [commercialhaskell/rio](https://github.com/commercialhaskell/rio): A standard
  library for Haskell
- [fpco/unliftio](https://github.com/fpco/unliftio): The MonadUnliftIO typeclass
  for unlifting monads to IO
- [composewell/streamly](https://github.com/composewell/streamly): Dataflow
  programming and declarative concurrency <https://streamly.composewell.com/>
- [well-typed/optics](https://github.com/well-typed/optics): Optics as an
  abstract interface

### Web

- [monadicsystems/okapi](https://github.com/monadicsystems/okapi): A web
  microframework for Haskell based on monadic parsing <https://www.okapi.wiki/>

### Other good libs

- [ndmitchell/shake](https://github.com/ndmitchell/shake): Shake build system
  <http://shakebuild.com/>
- [dhall-lang/dhall-haskell](https://github.com/dhall-lang/dhall-haskell):
  Maintainable configuration files <https://dhall-lang.org/>

## Typescript

- [gcanti/fp-ts](https://github.com/gcanti/fp-ts): Functional programming in
  TypeScript
- [Effect-TS/core](https://github.com/Effect-TS/core): A Fully-fledged
  functional effect system for typescript with a rich standard library
- [gigobyte/purify](https://github.com/gigobyte/purify): Functional programming
  library for TypeScript <https://gigobyte.github.io/purify>

## Experimental languages

- [koka-lang/koka](https://github.com/koka-lang/koka): Koka language compiler
  and interpreter <https://koka-lang.org/>
- [Kindelia/HVM](https://github.com/Kindelia/HVM): A massively parallel, optimal
  functional runtime in Rust
