frontend.md, before:

# Frontend / UI

## Framework

- [lucacasonato/fresh](https://github.com/denoland/fresh): The next-gen web
  framework. <https://fresh.deno.dev>
- [honojs/hono](https://github.com/honojs/hono): Ultrafast web framework for
  Cloudflare Workers and Deno. Fast, but not only fast.
- [oven-sh/bun](https://github.com/oven-sh/bun): Incredibly fast JavaScript
  runtime, bundler, transpiler and package manager – all in one.
  <https://bun.sh>
- [alpinejs/alpine](https://github.com/alpinejs/alpine): A rugged, minimal
  framework for composing JavaScript behavior in your markup.
  <https://alpinejs.dev>
- [t3-oss/create-t3-app](https://github.com/t3-oss/create-t3-app): The best way
  to start a full-stack, typesafe Next.js app <https://create.t3.gg>
- [redwoodjs/redwood](https://github.com/redwoodjs/redwood): The App Framework
  for Startups <https://redwoodjs.com>

## Components library

### Framework library

- [nextui-org/nextui](https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui): 🚀 Beautiful, fast
  and modern React UI library. <https://nextui.org>
- [mantinedev/mantine](https://github.com/mantinedev/mantine/): React components
  library with native dark theme support <https://mantine.dev>
- [tailwindlabs/headlessui](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/headlessui):
  Completely unstyled, fully accessible UI components, designed to integrate
  beautifully with Tailwind CSS. <https://headlessui.dev>
- [reach/reach-ui](https://github.com/reach/reach-ui): The Accessible Foundation
  for React Apps and Design Systems <https://reach.tech>
- [radix-ui/primitives](https://github.com/radix-ui/primitives): An open-source
  UI component library for building high-quality, accessible design systems and
  web apps. Maintained by @modulz. <https://radix-ui.com>
- [chakra-ui/chakra-ui](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui): ⚡️ Simple,
  Modular & Accessible UI Components for your React Applications
  <https://chakra-ui.com>
- [horizon-ui/horizon-ui-chakra](https://github.com/horizon-ui/horizon-ui-chakra):The
  most trendiest & innovative Open Source Admin Template for Chakra UI & React!
  <https://horizon-ui.com>
- [adobe/react-spectrum](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum): A collection
  of libraries and tools that help you build adaptive, accessible, and robust
  user experiences. <https://react-spectrum.adobe.com>
- [wbkd/react-flow](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow): Highly customizable
  library for building interactive node-based UIs, editors, flow charts and
  diagrams
- [oslabs-beta/Svelvet](https://github.com/oslabs-beta/Svelvet): A lightweight
  Svelte component library for building interactive node-based flow diagrams
- [lit/lit](https://github.com/lit/lit/): Lit is a simple library for building
  fast, lightweight web components. <https://lit.dev>
- [daisyui/react-daisyui](https://github.com/daisyui/react-daisyui): daisyUI
  components built with React 🌼
- [tremorlabs/tremor](https://github.com/tremorlabs/tremor): The react library
  to build dashboards fast. <https://tremor.so>

### Components

- [tabler/tabler](https://github.com/tabler/tabler): Tabler is free and
  open-source HTML Dashboard UI Kit built on Bootstrap
  <https://preview.tabler.io>
- [mdbootstrap/Tailwind-Elements](https://github.com/mdbootstrap/Tailwind-Elements):
  𝙃𝙪𝙜𝙚 collection of Tailwind components, sections and templates 😎 - FREE for
  commercial use <https://tailwind-elements.com>
- [cruip/tailwind-landing-page-template](https://github.com/cruip/tailwind-landing-page-template):
  Simple Light is a free landing page template built on top of TailwindCSS and
  fully coded in React. <https://simple.cruip.com>
- [TanStack/table](https://github.com/TanStack/table): 🤖 Headless UI for
  building powerful tables & datagrids for TS/JS - React-Table, Vue-Table,
  Solid-Table, Svelte-Table <https://tanstack.com/table>

### CSS Style

- [saadeghi/daisyui](https://github.com/saadeghi/daisyui): ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️
   The most popular, free and open-source Tailwind CSS component library
  <https://daisyui.com>
- [andybrewer/mvp](https://github.com/andybrewer/mvp/): MVP.css — Minimalist
  classless CSS stylesheet for HTML elements <https://andybrewer.github.io/mvp>
- [Mokshit06/typewind](https://github.com/Mokshit06/typewind): The safety of
  Typescript with the magic of Tailwind. <https://typewind.vercel.app>
- [macaron-css/macaron](https://github.com/macaron-css/macaron): Typesafe
  CSS-in-JS with zero runtime, colocation, maximum safety and productivity
  <https://macaron.js.org>

## Channel

- [yomorun/presencejs](https://github.com/yomorun/presencejs): @yomo/presencejs
  ⚡️ made realtime web applications edge-aware by YoMo, WebTransport based,
  provide fallback to WebSocket automatically. <https://presence.js.org>

## Utils

- [streamich/react-use](https://github.com/streamich/react-use): React Hooks —
  👍 <http://streamich.github.io/react-use>
- [meilisearch/meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): An
  open-source, lightning-fast, and hyper-relevant search engine that fits
  effortlessly into your apps, websites, and workflow.
  <https://www.meilisearch.com>
- [tinyplex/tinybase](https://github.com/tinyplex/tinybase): A tiny, reactive
  JavaScript library for structured state and tabular data.
  <https://tinybase.org>
- [webpro/knip](https://github.com/webpro/knip): Find unused files, dependencies
  and exports in your JS/TS project
- [colinhacks/zod](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod): TypeScript-first schema
  validation with static type inference <https://zod.dev>
- [ajv-validator/ajv](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv): The fastest JSON
  schema Validator. Supports JSON Schema draft-04/06/07/2019-09/2020-12 and JSON
  Type Definition (RFC8927) <https://ajv.js.org>
- [iamkun/dayjs](https://github.com/iamkun/dayjs): ⏰ Day.js 2kB immutable
  date-time library alternative to Moment.js with the same modern API
  <https://day.js.org>
- [moment/luxon](https://github.com/moment/luxon): ⏱ A library for working with
  dates and times in JS <https://moment.github.io/luxon>
- [pmndrs/zustand](https://github.com/pmndrs/zustand): 🐻 Bear necessities for
  state management in React <https://zustand-demo.pmnd.rs>
- [pmndrs/jotai](https://github.com/pmndrs/jotai): 👻 Primitive and flexible
  state management for React <https://jotai.org>
- [statelyai/xstate](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate):State machines and
  statecharts for the modern web. <https://xstate.js.org/docs>
- [immerjs/immer](https://github.com/immerjs/immer): Create the next immutable
  state by mutating the current one <https://immerjs.github.io/immer>
- [resendlabs/react-email](https://github.com/resendlabs/react-email): 💌 Build
  and send emails using React <https://react.email>

## Visualization

- [observablehq/plot](https://github.com/observablehq/plot): A concise API for
  exploratory data visualization <https://observablehq.com/@observablehq/plot>
- [airbnb/visx](https://github.com/airbnb/visx): 🐯 visx | visualization
  components <https://airbnb.io/visx>
- [reaviz/reaviz](https://github.com/reaviz/reaviz): 📊 Data visualization
  library for React <https://reaviz.io>
- [f5/unovis](https://github.com/f5/unovis): Modular data visualization
  framework for React, Angular, Svelte, and vanilla TypeScript or JavaScript
  <https://unovis.dev>
- [chartjs/Chart.js](https://github.com/chartjs/Chart.js): Simple HTML5 Charts
  using the `<canvas>` tag <https://www.chartjs.org>
- [plouc/nivo](https://github.com/plouc/nivo): nivo provides a rich set of
  dataviz components, built on top of the awesome d3 and React libraries
  <https://nivo.rocks>
- [highcharts/highcharts](https://github.com/highcharts/highcharts): Highcharts
  JS, the JavaScript charting framework <https://www.highcharts.com>
- [leeoniya/uPlot](https://github.com/leeoniya/uPlot): 📈 A small, fast chart
  for time series, lines, areas, ohlc & bars
- [chartist-js/chartist](https://github.com/chartist-js/chartist): Simple
  responsive charts
- [FormidableLabs/victory](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/victory): A
  collection of composable React components for building interactive data
  visualizations <https://formidable.com/open-source/victory>

## GUI

- [ultralight-ux/Ultralight](https://github.com/ultralight-ux/Ultralight):
  Next-generation HTML renderer for apps and games <https://ultralig.ht>
- [DioxusLabs/dioxus](https://github.com/DioxusLabs/dioxus): Friendly React-like
  GUI library for desktop, web, mobile, and more. <https://dioxuslabs.com>

## Design

- [nealmckee/penumbra](https://github.com/nealmckee/penumbra): Penumbra Color
  Theme
- [vincentdoerig/latex-css](https://github.com/vincentdoerig/latex-css):
  LaTeX.css is a CSS library that makes your website look like a LaTeX document
  <https://latex.now.sh>
- [remotion-dev/remotion](https://github.com/remotion-dev/remotion): 🎥 Make
  videos programmatically with React <https://remotion.dev>
- [boringdesigners/boring-avatars](https://github.com/boringdesigners/boring-avatars):
  Boring avatars is a tiny JavaScript React library that generates custom,
  SVG-based avatars from any username and color palette.
  <https://boringavatars.com/>

## Build tools

- [vercel/turbo](https://github.com/vercel/turbo): Incremental bundler and build
  system optimized for JavaScript and TypeScript, written in Rust – including
  Turborepo and Turbopack. <https://turbo.build>
- [google/wireit](https://github.com/google/wireit): Wireit upgrades your npm
  scripts to make them smarter and more efficient.
- [quick-lint/quick-lint-js](https://github.com/quick-lint/quick-lint-js):
  quick-lint-js finds bugs in JavaScript programs <https://quick-lint-js.com>

## Toolchains

- [volta-cli/volta](https://github.com/volta-cli/volta): Volta: JS Toolchains as
  Code. ⚡ <https://volta.sh>
- [tj/n](https://github.com/tj/n): Node version management
- [Schniz/fnm](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm): 🚀 Fast and simple Node.js
  version manager, built in Rust <https://fnm.vercel.app>

## SSG

- [craigary/nobelium](https://github.com/craigary/nobelium): A static blog build
  on top of Notion and NextJS, deployed on Vercel. <https://nobelium.js.org>

Commit message:

Add haskell-phrasebook and sonner

frontend.md, after:

# Frontend / UI

## Framework

- [lucacasonato/fresh](https://github.com/denoland/fresh): The next-gen web
  framework. <https://fresh.deno.dev>
- [honojs/hono](https://github.com/honojs/hono): Ultrafast web framework for
  Cloudflare Workers and Deno. Fast, but not only fast.
- [oven-sh/bun](https://github.com/oven-sh/bun): Incredibly fast JavaScript
  runtime, bundler, transpiler and package manager – all in one.
  <https://bun.sh>
- [alpinejs/alpine](https://github.com/alpinejs/alpine): A rugged, minimal
  framework for composing JavaScript behavior in your markup.
  <https://alpinejs.dev>
- [t3-oss/create-t3-app](https://github.com/t3-oss/create-t3-app): The best way
  to start a full-stack, typesafe Next.js app <https://create.t3.gg>
- [redwoodjs/redwood](https://github.com/redwoodjs/redwood): The App Framework
  for Startups <https://redwoodjs.com>

## Components library

### Framework library

- [nextui-org/nextui](https://github.com/nextui-org/nextui): 🚀 Beautiful, fast
  and modern React UI library. <https://nextui.org>
- [mantinedev/mantine](https://github.com/mantinedev/mantine/): React components
  library with native dark theme support <https://mantine.dev>
- [tailwindlabs/headlessui](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/headlessui):
  Completely unstyled, fully accessible UI components, designed to integrate
  beautifully with Tailwind CSS. <https://headlessui.dev>
- [reach/reach-ui](https://github.com/reach/reach-ui): The Accessible Foundation
  for React Apps and Design Systems <https://reach.tech>
- [radix-ui/primitives](https://github.com/radix-ui/primitives): An open-source
  UI component library for building high-quality, accessible design systems and
  web apps. Maintained by @modulz. <https://radix-ui.com>
- [chakra-ui/chakra-ui](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui): ⚡️ Simple,
  Modular & Accessible UI Components for your React Applications
  <https://chakra-ui.com>
- [horizon-ui/horizon-ui-chakra](https://github.com/horizon-ui/horizon-ui-chakra):The
  most trendiest & innovative Open Source Admin Template for Chakra UI & React!
  <https://horizon-ui.com>
- [adobe/react-spectrum](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum): A collection
  of libraries and tools that help you build adaptive, accessible, and robust
  user experiences. <https://react-spectrum.adobe.com>
- [wbkd/react-flow](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow): Highly customizable
  library for building interactive node-based UIs, editors, flow charts and
  diagrams
- [oslabs-beta/Svelvet](https://github.com/oslabs-beta/Svelvet): A lightweight
  Svelte component library for building interactive node-based flow diagrams
- [lit/lit](https://github.com/lit/lit/): Lit is a simple library for building
  fast, lightweight web components. <https://lit.dev>
- [daisyui/react-daisyui](https://github.com/daisyui/react-daisyui): daisyUI
  components built with React 🌼
- [tremorlabs/tremor](https://github.com/tremorlabs/tremor): The react library
  to build dashboards fast. <https://tremor.so>

### Components

- [tabler/tabler](https://github.com/tabler/tabler): Tabler is free and
  open-source HTML Dashboard UI Kit built on Bootstrap
  <https://preview.tabler.io>
- [mdbootstrap/Tailwind-Elements](https://github.com/mdbootstrap/Tailwind-Elements):
  𝙃𝙪𝙜𝙚 collection of Tailwind components, sections and templates 😎 - FREE for
  commercial use <https://tailwind-elements.com>
- [cruip/tailwind-landing-page-template](https://github.com/cruip/tailwind-landing-page-template):
  Simple Light is a free landing page template built on top of TailwindCSS and
  fully coded in React. <https://simple.cruip.com>
- [TanStack/table](https://github.com/TanStack/table): 🤖 Headless UI for
  building powerful tables & datagrids for TS/JS - React-Table, Vue-Table,
  Solid-Table, Svelte-Table <https://tanstack.com/table>
- [emilkowalski/sonner](https://github.com/emilkowalski/sonner): An opinionated
  toast component for React. <https://sonner.emilkowal.ski/>

### CSS Style

- [saadeghi/daisyui](https://github.com/saadeghi/daisyui): ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️
   The most popular, free and open-source Tailwind CSS component library
  <https://daisyui.com>
- [andybrewer/mvp](https://github.com/andybrewer/mvp/): MVP.css — Minimalist
  classless CSS stylesheet for HTML elements <https://andybrewer.github.io/mvp>
- [Mokshit06/typewind](https://github.com/Mokshit06/typewind): The safety of
  Typescript with the magic of Tailwind. <https://typewind.vercel.app>
- [macaron-css/macaron](https://github.com/macaron-css/macaron): Typesafe
  CSS-in-JS with zero runtime, colocation, maximum safety and productivity
  <https://macaron.js.org>

## Channel

- [yomorun/presencejs](https://github.com/yomorun/presencejs): @yomo/presencejs
  ⚡️ made realtime web applications edge-aware by YoMo, WebTransport based,
  provide fallback to WebSocket automatically. <https://presence.js.org>

## Utils

- [streamich/react-use](https://github.com/streamich/react-use): React Hooks —
  👍 <http://streamich.github.io/react-use>
- [meilisearch/meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): An
  open-source, lightning-fast, and hyper-relevant search engine that fits
  effortlessly into your apps, websites, and workflow.
  <https://www.meilisearch.com>
- [tinyplex/tinybase](https://github.com/tinyplex/tinybase): A tiny, reactive
  JavaScript library for structured state and tabular data.
  <https://tinybase.org>
- [webpro/knip](https://github.com/webpro/knip): Find unused files, dependencies
  and exports in your JS/TS project
- [colinhacks/zod](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod): TypeScript-first schema
  validation with static type inference <https://zod.dev>
- [ajv-validator/ajv](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv): The fastest JSON
  schema Validator. Supports JSON Schema draft-04/06/07/2019-09/2020-12 and JSON
  Type Definition (RFC8927) <https://ajv.js.org>
- [iamkun/dayjs](https://github.com/iamkun/dayjs): ⏰ Day.js 2kB immutable
  date-time library alternative to Moment.js with the same modern API
  <https://day.js.org>
- [moment/luxon](https://github.com/moment/luxon): ⏱ A library for working with
  dates and times in JS <https://moment.github.io/luxon>
- [pmndrs/zustand](https://github.com/pmndrs/zustand): 🐻 Bear necessities for
  state management in React <https://zustand-demo.pmnd.rs>
- [pmndrs/jotai](https://github.com/pmndrs/jotai): 👻 Primitive and flexible
  state management for React <https://jotai.org>
- [statelyai/xstate](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate):State machines and
  statecharts for the modern web. <https://xstate.js.org/docs>
- [immerjs/immer](https://github.com/immerjs/immer): Create the next immutable
  state by mutating the current one <https://immerjs.github.io/immer>
- [resendlabs/react-email](https://github.com/resendlabs/react-email): 💌 Build
  and send emails using React <https://react.email>

## Visualization

- [observablehq/plot](https://github.com/observablehq/plot): A concise API for
  exploratory data visualization <https://observablehq.com/@observablehq/plot>
- [airbnb/visx](https://github.com/airbnb/visx): 🐯 visx | visualization
  components <https://airbnb.io/visx>
- [reaviz/reaviz](https://github.com/reaviz/reaviz): 📊 Data visualization
  library for React <https://reaviz.io>
- [f5/unovis](https://github.com/f5/unovis): Modular data visualization
  framework for React, Angular, Svelte, and vanilla TypeScript or JavaScript
  <https://unovis.dev>
- [chartjs/Chart.js](https://github.com/chartjs/Chart.js): Simple HTML5 Charts
  using the `<canvas>` tag <https://www.chartjs.org>
- [plouc/nivo](https://github.com/plouc/nivo): nivo provides a rich set of
  dataviz components, built on top of the awesome d3 and React libraries
  <https://nivo.rocks>
- [highcharts/highcharts](https://github.com/highcharts/highcharts): Highcharts
  JS, the JavaScript charting framework <https://www.highcharts.com>
- [leeoniya/uPlot](https://github.com/leeoniya/uPlot): 📈 A small, fast chart
  for time series, lines, areas, ohlc & bars
- [chartist-js/chartist](https://github.com/chartist-js/chartist): Simple
  responsive charts
- [FormidableLabs/victory](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/victory): A
  collection of composable React components for building interactive data
  visualizations <https://formidable.com/open-source/victory>

## GUI

- [ultralight-ux/Ultralight](https://github.com/ultralight-ux/Ultralight):
  Next-generation HTML renderer for apps and games <https://ultralig.ht>
- [DioxusLabs/dioxus](https://github.com/DioxusLabs/dioxus): Friendly React-like
  GUI library for desktop, web, mobile, and more. <https://dioxuslabs.com>

## Design

- [nealmckee/penumbra](https://github.com/nealmckee/penumbra): Penumbra Color
  Theme
- [vincentdoerig/latex-css](https://github.com/vincentdoerig/latex-css):
  LaTeX.css is a CSS library that makes your website look like a LaTeX document
  <https://latex.now.sh>
- [remotion-dev/remotion](https://github.com/remotion-dev/remotion): 🎥 Make
  videos programmatically with React <https://remotion.dev>
- [boringdesigners/boring-avatars](https://github.com/boringdesigners/boring-avatars):
  Boring avatars is a tiny JavaScript React library that generates custom,
  SVG-based avatars from any username and color palette.
  <https://boringavatars.com/>

## Build tools

- [vercel/turbo](https://github.com/vercel/turbo): Incremental bundler and build
  system optimized for JavaScript and TypeScript, written in Rust – including
  Turborepo and Turbopack. <https://turbo.build>
- [google/wireit](https://github.com/google/wireit): Wireit upgrades your npm
  scripts to make them smarter and more efficient.
- [quick-lint/quick-lint-js](https://github.com/quick-lint/quick-lint-js):
  quick-lint-js finds bugs in JavaScript programs <https://quick-lint-js.com>

## Toolchains

- [volta-cli/volta](https://github.com/volta-cli/volta): Volta: JS Toolchains as
  Code. ⚡ <https://volta.sh>
- [tj/n](https://github.com/tj/n): Node version management
- [Schniz/fnm](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm): 🚀 Fast and simple Node.js
  version manager, built in Rust <https://fnm.vercel.app>

## SSG

- [craigary/nobelium](https://github.com/craigary/nobelium): A static blog build
  on top of Notion and NextJS, deployed on Vercel. <https://nobelium.js.org>
