hacker.md, before:

# Control your work flow

## cli

- [kaplanelad/shellfirm](https://github.com/kaplanelad/shellfirm): Intercept any
  risky patterns (default or defined by you) and prompt you a small challenge
  for double verification
- [sharkdp/fd](https://github.com/sharkdp/fd): A simple, fast and user-friendly
  alternative to 'find'
- [sharkdp/bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat): A cat(1) clone with wings.
- [sigoden/dufs](https://github.com/sigoden/dufs): A file server that supports
  static serving, uploading, searching, accessing control, webdav...
- [asciinema/asciinema](https://github.com/asciinema/asciinema): Terminal
  session recorder 📹 <https://asciinema.org/>
- [asciinema/agg](https://github.com/asciinema/agg): asciinema gif generator
- [ellie/atuin](https://github.com/ellie/atuin): 🐢 Magical shell history
  <https://atuin.sh/>
- [bootandy/dust](https://github.com/bootandy/dust): A more intuitive version of
  du in rust
- [lra/mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup): Keep your application settings in
  sync (OS X/Linux)
- [extrawurst/gitui](https://github.com/extrawurst/gitui): Blazing 💥 fast
  terminal-ui for git written in rust 🦀
- [jetpack-io/devbox](https://github.com/jetpack-io/devbox): Instant, easy,
  predictable shells and containers.
- [exdx/dcp](https://github.com/exdx/dcp): docker cp made easy

## Software / Services

- [qarmin/czkawka](https://github.com/qarmin/czkawka): Multi functional app to
  find duplicates, empty folders, similar images etc.
- [spacedriveapp/spacedrive](https://github.com/spacedriveapp/spacedrive):
  Spacedrive is an open source cross-platform file explorer, powered by a
  virtual distributed filesystem written in Rust.
- [elkowar/eww](https://github.com/elkowar/eww): ElKowars wacky widgets
  <https://elkowar.github.io/eww>
- [LanguageTool](https://languagetool.org): Instantly Enhance Your Writing
- [padloc/padloc](https://github.com/padloc/padloc): A modern, open source
  password manager for individuals and teams. <https://padloc.app/>
- [HandBrake/HandBrake](https://github.com/HandBrake/HandBrake): HandBrake's
  main development repository <https://handbrake.fr/>
- [undergroundwires/privacy.sexy](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy):
  Open-source tool to enforce privacy & security best-practices on Windows and
  macOS, because privacy is sexy 🍑🍆 <https://privacy.sexy/>
- [Typst](https://typst.app/): Compose papers faster: Focus on your text and let
  Typst take care of layout and formatting.
- [Inkdrop](https://www.inkdrop.app/): Organizing your Markdown notes made
  simple.
- [markmap/markmap](https://github.com/markmap/markmap): Visualize your Markdown
  as mindmaps with Markmap.
- [RobotsAndPencils/XcodesApp](https://github.com/RobotsAndPencils/XcodesApp):
  The easiest way to install and switch between multiple versions of Xcode -
  with a mouse click.
- [exelban/stats](https://github.com/exelban/stats): macOS system monitor in
  your menu bar
- [ahrm/sioyek](https://github.com/ahrm/sioyek): Sioyek is a PDF viewer designed
  for reading research papers and technical books. <https://sioyek.info/>
- [calcom/cal.com](https://github.com/calcom/cal.com): Scheduling infrastructure
  for absolutely everyone. <https://cal.com/>
- [sissbruecker/linkding](https://github.com/sissbruecker/linkding): Self-hosted
  bookmark service

## Dev tools

- [F1bonacc1/process-compose](https://github.com/F1bonacc1/process-compose):
  Process Compose is a simple and flexible scheduler and orchestrator to manage
  non-containerized applications.
- [kampersanda/goodname](https://github.com/kampersanda/goodname): Tool to
  assist you with cool naming of your methods and software
  <https://kampersanda.github.io/goodname/>
- [compiler-explorer/compiler-explorer](https://github.com/compiler-explorer/compiler-explorer):
  Run compilers interactively from your web browser and interact with the
  assembly <https://godbolt.org/>
- [decompiler-explorer/decompiler-explorer](https://github.com/decompiler-explorer/decompiler-explorer):
  Decompiler Explorer! Compare tools on the forefront of static analysis, now in
  your web browser! <https://dogbolt.org/>
- [ivanceras/svgbob](https://github.com/ivanceras/svgbob): Convert your ascii
  diagram scribbles into happy little SVG
  <http://ivanceras.github.io/svgbob-editor/>
- [AykutSarac/jsoncrack.com](https://github.com/AykutSarac/jsoncrack.com): 🔮
  Seamlessly visualize your JSON data instantly into graphs; paste, import or
  fetch!
- [bufbuild/buf](https://github.com/bufbuild/buf): A new way of working with
  Protocol Buffers. <https://buf.build/>
- [shimohq/chinese-programmer-wrong-pronunciation](https://github.com/shimohq/chinese-programmer-wrong-pronunciation):
  中国程序员容易发音错误的单词 <https://cpwp.netlify.app/>

## HomeKit / IoT

- [homebridge/homebridge](https://github.com/homebridge/homebridge): HomeKit
  support for the impatient. <https://homebridge.io/>
- [frenck/awesome-home-assistant](https://github.com/frenck/awesome-home-assistant):
  A curated list of amazingly awesome Home Assistant resources.
  <https://awesome-ha.com/>

## Homelab

- [meienberger/runtipi](https://github.com/meienberger/runtipi): ⛺️ Tipi is a
  homeserver for everyone! One command setup, one click installs for your
  favorites self-hosted apps. ✨
- [sandstorm-io/sandstorm](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm): Sandstorm
  is a self-hostable web productivity suite. It's implemented as a
  security-hardened web app package manager. <https://sandstorm.io/>

## Proxy

- [macronut/phantomsocks](https://github.com/macronut/phantomsocks): A
  cross-platform proxy client/server for Linux/Windows/macOS
- [enfein/mieru](https://github.com/enfein/mieru): 見える是一款 socks5 网络代理
  工具。Mieru is a socks5 proxy to bypass censorship.
- [eycorsican/leaf](https://github.com/eycorsican/leaf): A versatile and
  efficient proxy framework with nice features suitable for various use cases.
- [bluejekyll/trust-dns](https://github.com/bluejekyll/trust-dns): A Rust based
  DNS client, server, and resolver
- [mingcheng/socks5lb](https://github.com/mingcheng/socks5lb): A simple socks5
  proxy load balance and transparent proxy
- [felixonmars/dnsmasq-china-list](https://github.com/felixonmars/dnsmasq-china-list):
  Chinese-specific configuration to improve your favorite DNS server. Best
  partner for chnroutes.
- [nadoo/glider](https://github.com/nadoo/glider): glider is a forward proxy
  with multiple protocols support, and also a dns/dhcp server with ipset
  management features(like dnsmasq).
- [hashicorp/yamux](https://github.com/hashicorp/yamux): Golang connection
  multiplexing library

## Misc

- [XIU2/CloudflareSpeedTest](https://github.com/XIU2/CloudflareSpeedTest): 🌩「自
  选优选 IP」测试 Cloudflare CDN 延迟和速度，获取最快 IP (IPv4 / IPv6)！另外也支
  持其他 CDN / 网站 IP ~
- [naiba/nezha](https://github.com/naiba/nezha): :trollface: Self-hosted,
  lightweight server and website monitoring and O&M tool
  <https://ops.naibahq.com/>
- [louislam/uptime-kuma](https://github.com/louislam/uptime-kuma): A fancy
  self-hosted monitoring tool <https://uptime.kuma.pet/>

Commit message:

Add `smartdns`, `arbitrary` and `little-raft`

hacker.md, after:

# Control your work flow

## cli

- [kaplanelad/shellfirm](https://github.com/kaplanelad/shellfirm): Intercept any
  risky patterns (default or defined by you) and prompt you a small challenge
  for double verification
- [sharkdp/fd](https://github.com/sharkdp/fd): A simple, fast and user-friendly
  alternative to 'find'
- [sharkdp/bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat): A cat(1) clone with wings.
- [sigoden/dufs](https://github.com/sigoden/dufs): A file server that supports
  static serving, uploading, searching, accessing control, webdav...
- [asciinema/asciinema](https://github.com/asciinema/asciinema): Terminal
  session recorder 📹 <https://asciinema.org/>
- [asciinema/agg](https://github.com/asciinema/agg): asciinema gif generator
- [ellie/atuin](https://github.com/ellie/atuin): 🐢 Magical shell history
  <https://atuin.sh/>
- [bootandy/dust](https://github.com/bootandy/dust): A more intuitive version of
  du in rust
- [lra/mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup): Keep your application settings in
  sync (OS X/Linux)
- [extrawurst/gitui](https://github.com/extrawurst/gitui): Blazing 💥 fast
  terminal-ui for git written in rust 🦀
- [jetpack-io/devbox](https://github.com/jetpack-io/devbox): Instant, easy,
  predictable shells and containers.
- [exdx/dcp](https://github.com/exdx/dcp): docker cp made easy

## Software / Services

- [qarmin/czkawka](https://github.com/qarmin/czkawka): Multi functional app to
  find duplicates, empty folders, similar images etc.
- [spacedriveapp/spacedrive](https://github.com/spacedriveapp/spacedrive):
  Spacedrive is an open source cross-platform file explorer, powered by a
  virtual distributed filesystem written in Rust.
- [elkowar/eww](https://github.com/elkowar/eww): ElKowars wacky widgets
  <https://elkowar.github.io/eww>
- [LanguageTool](https://languagetool.org): Instantly Enhance Your Writing
- [padloc/padloc](https://github.com/padloc/padloc): A modern, open source
  password manager for individuals and teams. <https://padloc.app/>
- [HandBrake/HandBrake](https://github.com/HandBrake/HandBrake): HandBrake's
  main development repository <https://handbrake.fr/>
- [undergroundwires/privacy.sexy](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy):
  Open-source tool to enforce privacy & security best-practices on Windows and
  macOS, because privacy is sexy 🍑🍆 <https://privacy.sexy/>
- [Typst](https://typst.app/): Compose papers faster: Focus on your text and let
  Typst take care of layout and formatting.
- [Inkdrop](https://www.inkdrop.app/): Organizing your Markdown notes made
  simple.
- [markmap/markmap](https://github.com/markmap/markmap): Visualize your Markdown
  as mindmaps with Markmap.
- [RobotsAndPencils/XcodesApp](https://github.com/RobotsAndPencils/XcodesApp):
  The easiest way to install and switch between multiple versions of Xcode -
  with a mouse click.
- [exelban/stats](https://github.com/exelban/stats): macOS system monitor in
  your menu bar
- [ahrm/sioyek](https://github.com/ahrm/sioyek): Sioyek is a PDF viewer designed
  for reading research papers and technical books. <https://sioyek.info/>
- [calcom/cal.com](https://github.com/calcom/cal.com): Scheduling infrastructure
  for absolutely everyone. <https://cal.com/>
- [sissbruecker/linkding](https://github.com/sissbruecker/linkding): Self-hosted
  bookmark service

## Dev tools

- [F1bonacc1/process-compose](https://github.com/F1bonacc1/process-compose):
  Process Compose is a simple and flexible scheduler and orchestrator to manage
  non-containerized applications.
- [kampersanda/goodname](https://github.com/kampersanda/goodname): Tool to
  assist you with cool naming of your methods and software
  <https://kampersanda.github.io/goodname/>
- [compiler-explorer/compiler-explorer](https://github.com/compiler-explorer/compiler-explorer):
  Run compilers interactively from your web browser and interact with the
  assembly <https://godbolt.org/>
- [decompiler-explorer/decompiler-explorer](https://github.com/decompiler-explorer/decompiler-explorer):
  Decompiler Explorer! Compare tools on the forefront of static analysis, now in
  your web browser! <https://dogbolt.org/>
- [ivanceras/svgbob](https://github.com/ivanceras/svgbob): Convert your ascii
  diagram scribbles into happy little SVG
  <http://ivanceras.github.io/svgbob-editor/>
- [AykutSarac/jsoncrack.com](https://github.com/AykutSarac/jsoncrack.com): 🔮
  Seamlessly visualize your JSON data instantly into graphs; paste, import or
  fetch!
- [bufbuild/buf](https://github.com/bufbuild/buf): A new way of working with
  Protocol Buffers. <https://buf.build/>
- [shimohq/chinese-programmer-wrong-pronunciation](https://github.com/shimohq/chinese-programmer-wrong-pronunciation):
  中国程序员容易发音错误的单词 <https://cpwp.netlify.app/>

## HomeKit / IoT

- [homebridge/homebridge](https://github.com/homebridge/homebridge): HomeKit
  support for the impatient. <https://homebridge.io/>
- [frenck/awesome-home-assistant](https://github.com/frenck/awesome-home-assistant):
  A curated list of amazingly awesome Home Assistant resources.
  <https://awesome-ha.com/>

## Homelab

- [meienberger/runtipi](https://github.com/meienberger/runtipi): ⛺️ Tipi is a
  homeserver for everyone! One command setup, one click installs for your
  favorites self-hosted apps. ✨
- [sandstorm-io/sandstorm](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm): Sandstorm
  is a self-hostable web productivity suite. It's implemented as a
  security-hardened web app package manager. <https://sandstorm.io/>

## Proxy

- [macronut/phantomsocks](https://github.com/macronut/phantomsocks): A
  cross-platform proxy client/server for Linux/Windows/macOS
- [enfein/mieru](https://github.com/enfein/mieru): 見える是一款 socks5 网络代理
  工具。Mieru is a socks5 proxy to bypass censorship.
- [eycorsican/leaf](https://github.com/eycorsican/leaf): A versatile and
  efficient proxy framework with nice features suitable for various use cases.
- [mingcheng/socks5lb](https://github.com/mingcheng/socks5lb): A simple socks5
  proxy load balance and transparent proxy
- [felixonmars/dnsmasq-china-list](https://github.com/felixonmars/dnsmasq-china-list):
  Chinese-specific configuration to improve your favorite DNS server. Best
  partner for chnroutes.
- [SukkaW/Surge](https://github.com/SukkaW/Surge): 由 Sukka 搜集、整理、维护的、
  个人自用的、仅适用于 Surge 的 Rule Snippet <https://ruleset.skk.moe>
- [pymumu/smartdns](https://github.com/pymumu/smartdns): A local DNS server to
  obtain the fastest website IP for the best Internet experience， 一个本地 DNS
  服务器，获取最快的网站 IP，获得最佳上网体验。
- [nadoo/glider](https://github.com/nadoo/glider): glider is a forward proxy
  with multiple protocols support, and also a dns/dhcp server with ipset
  management features(like dnsmasq).
- [hashicorp/yamux](https://github.com/hashicorp/yamux): Golang connection
  multiplexing library

## Misc

- [XIU2/CloudflareSpeedTest](https://github.com/XIU2/CloudflareSpeedTest): 🌩「自
  选优选 IP」测试 Cloudflare CDN 延迟和速度，获取最快 IP (IPv4 / IPv6)！另外也支
  持其他 CDN / 网站 IP ~
- [naiba/nezha](https://github.com/naiba/nezha): :trollface: Self-hosted,
  lightweight server and website monitoring and O&M tool
  <https://ops.naibahq.com/>
- [louislam/uptime-kuma](https://github.com/louislam/uptime-kuma): A fancy
  self-hosted monitoring tool <https://uptime.kuma.pet/>
- [muety/wakapi](https://github.com/muety/wakapi): 📊 A minimalist, self-hosted
  WakaTime-compatible backend for coding statistics <https://wakapi.dev/>
