python.md, before:

# Python

## Serialization

- [danielgtaylor/python-betterproto](https://github.com/danielgtaylor/python-betterproto):
  Clean, modern, Python 3.6+ code generator & library for Protobuf 3 and async
  gRPC
- [ultrajson/ultrajson](https://github.com/ultrajson/ultrajson): Ultra fast JSON
  decoder and encoder written in C with Python bindings
- [ijl/orjson](https://github.com/ijl/orjson): Fast, correct Python JSON library
  supporting dataclasses, datetimes, and numpy
- [jcrist/msgspec](https://github.com/jcrist/msgspec): A fast and friendly
  JSON/MessagePack library, with optional schema validation
  <https://jcristharif.com/msgspec>

## Test / Mock / Coverage

- [kevin1024/vcrpy](https://github.com/kevin1024/vcrpy): Automatically mock your
  HTTP interactions to simplify and speed up testing
- [lundberg/respx](https://github.com/lundberg/respx): Mock HTTPX with awesome
  request patterns and response side effects 🦋
- [plasma-umass/slipcover](https://github.com/plasma-umass/slipcover): Near
  Zero-Overhead Python Code Coverage
- [tonybaloney/wily](https://github.com/tonybaloney/wily): A Python application
  for tracking, reporting on timing and complexity in Python code
- [mkdocstrings/griffe](https://github.com/mkdocstrings/griffe): Signatures for
  entire Python programs. Extract the structure, the frame, the skeleton of your
  project, to generate API documentation or find breaking changes in your API.
  <https://mkdocstrings.github.io/griffe>

## Performance profile

- [plasma-umass/scalene](https://github.com/plasma-umass/scalene): Scalene: a
  high-performance, high-precision CPU, GPU, and memory profiler for Python
- [nschloe/tuna](https://github.com/nschloe/tuna): 🐟 Python profile viewer
- [benfred/py-spy](https://github.com/benfred/py-spy): Sampling profiler for
  Python programs
- [gaogaotiantian/viztracer](https://github.com/gaogaotiantian/viztracer):
  VizTracer is a low-overhead logging/debugging/profiling tool that can trace
  and visualize your python code execution.
- [bloomberg/memray](https://github.com/bloomberg/memray): Memray is a memory
  profiler for Python
- [P403n1x87/austin](https://github.com/P403n1x87/austin): Python frame stack
  sampler for CPython
- [pythonspeed/filprofiler](https://github.com/pythonspeed/filprofiler): A
  Python memory profiler for data processing and scientific computing
  applications
- [reloadware/reloadium](https://github.com/reloadware/reloadium): Advanced hot
  reloading & profiling for Python
- [python/pyperformance](https://github.com/python/pyperformance): Python
  Performance Benchmark Suite <http://pyperformance.readthedocs.io/>
- [joerick/pyinstrument](https://github.com/joerick/pyinstrument): 🚴 Call stack
  profiler for Python. Shows you why your code is slow!
  <https://pyinstrument.readthedocs.io/>

## Typing

- [beartype/beartype](https://github.com/beartype/beartype): Unbearably fast
  O(1) runtime type-checking in pure Python.
- [antonagestam/phantom-types](https://github.com/antonagestam/phantom-types):
  👻 Phantom types for Python
- [dry-python/returns](https://github.com/dry-python/returns): Make your
  functions return something meaningful, typed, and safe!
- [MaT1g3R/option](https://github.com/MaaT1g3R/option): Rust like Option and
  Result types in Python
- [alice-biometrics/meiga](https://github.com/alice-biometrics/meiga): 🧙 A
  simple, typed and monad-based Result type for Python.
- [mypyc/mypyc](https://github.com/mypyc/mypyc): Compile type annotated Python
  to fast C extensions <https://mypyc.readthedocs.io>
- [nipunn1313/mypy-protobuf](https://github.com/nipunn1313/mypy-protobuf): open
  source tools to generate mypy stubs from protobufs

## Linter

- [andreoliwa/nitpick](https://github.com/andreoliwa/nitpick): Enforce the same
  settings on multiple projects <https://nitpick.readthedocs.io/>

## Build tools

- [project/pdm](https://github.com/pdm-project/pdm): A modern Python package
  manager with PEP 582 support. <https://pdm.fming.dev>
- [pypa/hatch](https://github.com/pypa/hatch): Modern, extensible Python project
  management <https://hatch.pypa.io/latest>
- [linkedin/shiv](https://github.com/linkedin/shiv): shiv is a command line
  utility for building fully self contained Python zipapps as outlined in PEP
  441, but with all their dependencies included.
- [frostming/pdm-packer](https://github.com/frostming/pdm-packer): A PDM plugin
  that packs your packages into a zipapp
- [frostming/monas](https://github.com/frostming/monas): Python monorepo made
  easy <https://monas.fming.dev/>
- [indygreg/PyOxidizer](https://github.com/indygreg/PyOxidizer): A modern Python
  application packaging and distribution tool
- [indygreg/python-build-standalone](https://github.com/indygreg/python-build-standalone):
  Produce redistributable builds of Python
- [pradyunsg/furo](https://github.com/pradyunsg/furo): A clean customizable
  documentation theme for Sphinx
- [cruft/cruft](https://github.com/cruft/cruft/): Allows you to maintain all
  the necessary cruft for packaging and building projects separate from the code
  you intentionally write. Built on-top of, and fully compatible with,
  CookieCutter. <https://cruft.github.io/cruft/>

## Security

- [trailofbits/pip-audit](https://github.com/trailofbits/pip-audit): Audits
  Python environments and dependency trees for known vulnerabilities
- [pyupio/safety](https://github.com/pyupio/safety): Safety checks your
  installed dependencies for known security vulnerabilities

## Numerical and Data Science

- [nyggus/rounder](https://github.com/nyggus/rounder): Python package for
  rounding floats and complex numbers in complex Python objects.
- [great-expectations/great_expectations](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations):
  Always know what to expect from your data. <https://docs.greatexpectations.io>

## Prob

- [blackjax-devs/blackjax](https://github.com/blackjax-devs/blackjax): BlackJAX
  is a sampling library designed for ease of use, speed and modularity.
  <https://blackjax-devs.github.io/blackjax/>

## DB clients and SQL utils

- [nackjicholson/aiosql](https://github.com/nackjicholson/aiosql): Simple SQL in
  Python
- [roman-right/beanie](https://github.com/roman-right/beanie): Asynchronous
  Python ODM for MongoDB
- [art049/odmantic](https://github.com/art049/odmantic): Async ODM (Object
  Document Mapper) for MongoDB based on python type hints
- [tobymao/sqlglot](https://github.com/tobymao/sqlglot): Python SQL Parser and
  Transpiler

## Featured libraries

- [maxfischer2781/asyncstdlib](https://github.com/maxfischer2781/asyncstdlib):
  the missing toolbox for an async world
- [ethereum/lahja](https://github.com/ethereum/lahja): Lahja is a generic multi
  process event bus implementation written in Python 3.6+ to enable lightweight
  inter-process communication, based on non-blocking asyncio
- [insitro/redun](https://github.com/insitro/redun): Yet another redundant
  workflow engine <https://insitro.github.io/redun>
- [NicolasLM/spinach](https://github.com/NicolasLM/spinach): Modern Redis task
  queue for Python 3 <https://spinach.readthedocs.io>
- [asphalt-framework/asphalt](https://github.com/asphalt-framework/asphalt):
  Asphalt application framework (core)
- [awestlake87/pyo3-asyncio](https://github.com/awestlake87/pyo3-asyncio):
  Bridge between Rust async futures and Python asyncio
- [pgjones/hypercorn](https://github.com/pgjones/hypercorn): Hypercorn is an
  ASGI Server based on Hyper libraries and inspired by Gunicorn.
  <https://pgjones.gitlab.io/hypercorn/>
- [ipython/traitlets](https://github.com/ipython/traitlets): A lightweight
  Traits like module <https://traitlets.readthedocs.io/>

## Parser

- [Instagram/LibCST](https://github.com/Instagram/LibCST): A concrete syntax
  tree parser and serializer library for Python that preserves many aspects of
  Python's abstract syntax tree
- [lepture/mistune](https://github.com/lepture/mistune): A fast yet powerful
  Python Markdown parser with renderers and plugins.
  <http://mistune.readthedocs.io/>

## Logging

- [microsoft/picologging](https://github.com/microsoft/picologging): An
  optimized logging library for Python
- [Delgan/loguru](https://github.com/Delgan/loguru): Python logging made
  (stupidly) simple
- [hynek/structlog](https://github.com/hynek/structlog): Structured Logging for
  Python <https://www.structlog.org/>

## Misc

- [nolar/kopf](https://github.com/nolar/kopf): A Python framework to write
  Kubernetes operators in just a few lines of code
- [pikepdf/pikepdf](https://github.com/pikepdf/pikepdf): A Python library for
  reading and writing PDF, powered by qpdf
- [orsinium-labs/svg.py](https://github.com/orsinium-labs/svg.py): Type-safe and
  powerful Python library to generate SVG files
- [TomSchimansky/CustomTkinter](https://github.com/TomSchimansky/CustomTkinter):
  A modern and customizable python UI-library based on Tkinter
- [nficano/humps](https://github.com/nficano/humps): Convert strings (and
  dictionary keys) between snake case, camel case and pascal case in Python.
  Inspired by Humps for Node <http://humps.readthedocs.io/>
- [omry/omegaconf](https://github.com/omry/omegaconf): Flexible Python
  configuration system. The last one you will ever need.
- [facebookresearch/hydra](https://github.com/facebookresearch/hydra): Hydra is
  a framework for elegantly configuring complex applications <https://hydra.cc>
- [mingrammer/diagrams](https://github.com/mingrammer/diagrams): 🎨 Diagram as
  Code for prototyping cloud system architectures
  <https://diagrams.mingrammer.com/>

## Visualization

- [holoviz/panel](https://github.com/holoviz/panel): A high-level app and
  dashboarding solution for Python

Commit message:

Add new lis for fronent, hacker, python and tools

python.md, after:

# Python

## Serialization

- [danielgtaylor/python-betterproto](https://github.com/danielgtaylor/python-betterproto):
  Clean, modern, Python 3.6+ code generator & library for Protobuf 3 and async
  gRPC
- [ultrajson/ultrajson](https://github.com/ultrajson/ultrajson): Ultra fast JSON
  decoder and encoder written in C with Python bindings
- [ijl/orjson](https://github.com/ijl/orjson): Fast, correct Python JSON library
  supporting dataclasses, datetimes, and numpy
- [jcrist/msgspec](https://github.com/jcrist/msgspec): A fast and friendly
  JSON/MessagePack library, with optional schema validation
  <https://jcristharif.com/msgspec>

## Test / Mock / Coverage

- [kevin1024/vcrpy](https://github.com/kevin1024/vcrpy): Automatically mock your
  HTTP interactions to simplify and speed up testing
- [lundberg/respx](https://github.com/lundberg/respx): Mock HTTPX with awesome
  request patterns and response side effects 🦋
- [plasma-umass/slipcover](https://github.com/plasma-umass/slipcover): Near
  Zero-Overhead Python Code Coverage
- [tonybaloney/wily](https://github.com/tonybaloney/wily): A Python application
  for tracking, reporting on timing and complexity in Python code
- [mkdocstrings/griffe](https://github.com/mkdocstrings/griffe): Signatures for
  entire Python programs. Extract the structure, the frame, the skeleton of your
  project, to generate API documentation or find breaking changes in your API.
  <https://mkdocstrings.github.io/griffe>
- [omarkohl/pytest-datafiles](https://github.com/omarkohl/pytest-datafiles):
  pytest plugin to create a tmpdir containing a preconfigured set of files
  and/or directories.

## Performance profile

- [plasma-umass/scalene](https://github.com/plasma-umass/scalene): Scalene: a
  high-performance, high-precision CPU, GPU, and memory profiler for Python
- [nschloe/tuna](https://github.com/nschloe/tuna): 🐟 Python profile viewer
- [benfred/py-spy](https://github.com/benfred/py-spy): Sampling profiler for
  Python programs
- [gaogaotiantian/viztracer](https://github.com/gaogaotiantian/viztracer):
  VizTracer is a low-overhead logging/debugging/profiling tool that can trace
  and visualize your python code execution.
- [bloomberg/memray](https://github.com/bloomberg/memray): Memray is a memory
  profiler for Python
- [P403n1x87/austin](https://github.com/P403n1x87/austin): Python frame stack
  sampler for CPython
- [pythonspeed/filprofiler](https://github.com/pythonspeed/filprofiler): A
  Python memory profiler for data processing and scientific computing
  applications
- [reloadware/reloadium](https://github.com/reloadware/reloadium): Advanced hot
  reloading & profiling for Python
- [python/pyperformance](https://github.com/python/pyperformance): Python
  Performance Benchmark Suite <http://pyperformance.readthedocs.io/>
- [joerick/pyinstrument](https://github.com/joerick/pyinstrument): 🚴 Call stack
  profiler for Python. Shows you why your code is slow!
  <https://pyinstrument.readthedocs.io/>

## Typing

- [beartype/beartype](https://github.com/beartype/beartype): Unbearably fast
  O(1) runtime type-checking in pure Python.
- [antonagestam/phantom-types](https://github.com/antonagestam/phantom-types):
  👻 Phantom types for Python
- [dry-python/returns](https://github.com/dry-python/returns): Make your
  functions return something meaningful, typed, and safe!
- [MaT1g3R/option](https://github.com/MaaT1g3R/option): Rust like Option and
  Result types in Python
- [alice-biometrics/meiga](https://github.com/alice-biometrics/meiga): 🧙 A
  simple, typed and monad-based Result type for Python.
- [mypyc/mypyc](https://github.com/mypyc/mypyc): Compile type annotated Python
  to fast C extensions <https://mypyc.readthedocs.io>
- [nipunn1313/mypy-protobuf](https://github.com/nipunn1313/mypy-protobuf): open
  source tools to generate mypy stubs from protobufs

## Linter

- [andreoliwa/nitpick](https://github.com/andreoliwa/nitpick): Enforce the same
  settings on multiple projects <https://nitpick.readthedocs.io/>

## Build tools

- [project/pdm](https://github.com/pdm-project/pdm): A modern Python package
  manager with PEP 582 support. <https://pdm.fming.dev>
- [pypa/hatch](https://github.com/pypa/hatch): Modern, extensible Python project
  management <https://hatch.pypa.io/latest>
- [linkedin/shiv](https://github.com/linkedin/shiv): shiv is a command line
  utility for building fully self contained Python zipapps as outlined in PEP
  441, but with all their dependencies included.
- [frostming/pdm-packer](https://github.com/frostming/pdm-packer): A PDM plugin
  that packs your packages into a zipapp
- [frostming/monas](https://github.com/frostming/monas): Python monorepo made
  easy <https://monas.fming.dev/>
- [indygreg/PyOxidizer](https://github.com/indygreg/PyOxidizer): A modern Python
  application packaging and distribution tool
- [indygreg/python-build-standalone](https://github.com/indygreg/python-build-standalone):
  Produce redistributable builds of Python
- [pradyunsg/furo](https://github.com/pradyunsg/furo): A clean customizable
  documentation theme for Sphinx
- [cruft/cruft](https://github.com/cruft/cruft/): Allows you to maintain all the
  necessary cruft for packaging and building projects separate from the code you
  intentionally write. Built on-top of, and fully compatible with, CookieCutter.
  <https://cruft.github.io/cruft/>

## Security

- [trailofbits/pip-audit](https://github.com/trailofbits/pip-audit): Audits
  Python environments and dependency trees for known vulnerabilities
- [pyupio/safety](https://github.com/pyupio/safety): Safety checks your
  installed dependencies for known security vulnerabilities

## Numerical and Data Science

- [nyggus/rounder](https://github.com/nyggus/rounder): Python package for
  rounding floats and complex numbers in complex Python objects.
- [great-expectations/great_expectations](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations):
  Always know what to expect from your data. <https://docs.greatexpectations.io>

## Prob

- [blackjax-devs/blackjax](https://github.com/blackjax-devs/blackjax): BlackJAX
  is a sampling library designed for ease of use, speed and modularity.
  <https://blackjax-devs.github.io/blackjax/>

## DB clients and SQL utils

- [nackjicholson/aiosql](https://github.com/nackjicholson/aiosql): Simple SQL in
  Python
- [roman-right/beanie](https://github.com/roman-right/beanie): Asynchronous
  Python ODM for MongoDB
- [art049/odmantic](https://github.com/art049/odmantic): Async ODM (Object
  Document Mapper) for MongoDB based on python type hints
- [tobymao/sqlglot](https://github.com/tobymao/sqlglot): Python SQL Parser and
  Transpiler

## Featured libraries

- [maxfischer2781/asyncstdlib](https://github.com/maxfischer2781/asyncstdlib):
  the missing toolbox for an async world
- [ethereum/lahja](https://github.com/ethereum/lahja): Lahja is a generic multi
  process event bus implementation written in Python 3.6+ to enable lightweight
  inter-process communication, based on non-blocking asyncio
- [insitro/redun](https://github.com/insitro/redun): Yet another redundant
  workflow engine <https://insitro.github.io/redun>
- [NicolasLM/spinach](https://github.com/NicolasLM/spinach): Modern Redis task
  queue for Python 3 <https://spinach.readthedocs.io>
- [asphalt-framework/asphalt](https://github.com/asphalt-framework/asphalt):
  Asphalt application framework (core)
- [awestlake87/pyo3-asyncio](https://github.com/awestlake87/pyo3-asyncio):
  Bridge between Rust async futures and Python asyncio
- [pgjones/hypercorn](https://github.com/pgjones/hypercorn): Hypercorn is an
  ASGI Server based on Hyper libraries and inspired by Gunicorn.
  <https://pgjones.gitlab.io/hypercorn/>
- [ipython/traitlets](https://github.com/ipython/traitlets): A lightweight
  Traits like module <https://traitlets.readthedocs.io/>

## Parser

- [Instagram/LibCST](https://github.com/Instagram/LibCST): A concrete syntax
  tree parser and serializer library for Python that preserves many aspects of
  Python's abstract syntax tree
- [lepture/mistune](https://github.com/lepture/mistune): A fast yet powerful
  Python Markdown parser with renderers and plugins.
  <http://mistune.readthedocs.io/>

## Logging

- [microsoft/picologging](https://github.com/microsoft/picologging): An
  optimized logging library for Python
- [Delgan/loguru](https://github.com/Delgan/loguru): Python logging made
  (stupidly) simple
- [hynek/structlog](https://github.com/hynek/structlog): Structured Logging for
  Python <https://www.structlog.org/>

## Misc

- [nolar/kopf](https://github.com/nolar/kopf): A Python framework to write
  Kubernetes operators in just a few lines of code
- [pikepdf/pikepdf](https://github.com/pikepdf/pikepdf): A Python library for
  reading and writing PDF, powered by qpdf
- [orsinium-labs/svg.py](https://github.com/orsinium-labs/svg.py): Type-safe and
  powerful Python library to generate SVG files
- [TomSchimansky/CustomTkinter](https://github.com/TomSchimansky/CustomTkinter):
  A modern and customizable python UI-library based on Tkinter
- [nficano/humps](https://github.com/nficano/humps): Convert strings (and
  dictionary keys) between snake case, camel case and pascal case in Python.
  Inspired by Humps for Node <http://humps.readthedocs.io/>
- [omry/omegaconf](https://github.com/omry/omegaconf): Flexible Python
  configuration system. The last one you will ever need.
- [facebookresearch/hydra](https://github.com/facebookresearch/hydra): Hydra is
  a framework for elegantly configuring complex applications <https://hydra.cc>
- [mingrammer/diagrams](https://github.com/mingrammer/diagrams): 🎨 Diagram as
  Code for prototyping cloud system architectures
  <https://diagrams.mingrammer.com/>
- [sdispater/tomlkit](https://github.com/sdispater/tomlkit): Style-preserving
  TOML library for Python

## Visualization

- [holoviz/panel](https://github.com/holoviz/panel): A high-level app and
  dashboarding solution for Python
