quant.md, before:

# Quant

## Framework

- [Blankly-Finance/Blankly](https://github.com/Blankly-Finance/Blankly): 🚀 💸
  Easily build, backtest and deploy your algo in just a few lines of code. Trade
  stocks, cryptos, and forex across exchanges w/ one package.
  <https://package.blankly.finance/>
- [goldmansachs/gs-quant](https://github.com/goldmansachs/gs-quant): Python
  toolkit for quantitative finance
  <https://developer.gs.com/discover/products/gs-quant/>
- [kieran-mackle/AutoTrader](https://github.com/kieran-mackle/AutoTrader): A
  Python-based development platform for automated trading systems - from
  backtesting to optimisation to livetrading.
  <https://kieran-mackle.github.io/AutoTrader/>
- [lballabio/QuantLib](https://github.com/lballabio/QuantLib): The QuantLib C++
  library <http://quantlib.org/>
- [Drakkar-Software/OctoBot](https://github.com/Drakkar-Software/OctoBot):
  Cryptocurrency trading bot using technical analysis based strategy with an
  advanced web interface <https://www.octobot.online/>

## Backtesting

- [quarkfin/qf-lib](https://github.com/quarkfin/qf-lib): Modular Python library
  that provides an advanced event driven backtester and a set of high quality
  tools for quantitative finance. <https://quarkfin.github.io/qf-lib-info/>
- [polakowo/vectorbt](https://github.com/polakowo/vectorbt): Find your trading
  edge, using the fastest engine for backtesting, algorithmic trading, and
  research. <https://vectorbt.dev/>
- [anfederico/gemini](https://github.com/anfederico/gemini): Backtesting for
  sleepless cryptocurrency markets

## Portofolio

- [quantopian/alphalens](https://github.com/quantopian/alphalens): Performance
  analysis of predictive (alpha) stock factors
- [dcajasn/Riskfolio-Lib](https://github.com/dcajasn/Riskfolio-Lib): Portfolio
  Optimization and Quantitative Strategic Asset Allocation in Python

## API

- [Alpaca Finance](https://www.alpacafinance.org/): Alpaca Finance is the
  largest lending protocol allowing leveraged yield farming on BNB Chain.
- [Polygon](https://polygon.io/): Financial Market Data Platform Stock APIs,
  Forex, Crypto, and More
- [RomelTorres/alpha_vantage](https://github.com/RomelTorres/alpha_vantage): A
  python wrapper for Alpha Vantage API for financial data.

Commit message:

Add `vollib` and `volatility-trading`

quant.md, after:

# Quant

## Frameworks

- [Blankly-Finance/Blankly](https://github.com/Blankly-Finance/Blankly): 🚀 💸
  Easily build, backtest and deploy your algo in just a few lines of code. Trade
  stocks, cryptos, and forex across exchanges w/ one package.
  <https://package.blankly.finance/>
- [goldmansachs/gs-quant](https://github.com/goldmansachs/gs-quant): Python
  toolkit for quantitative finance
  <https://developer.gs.com/discover/products/gs-quant/>
- [kieran-mackle/AutoTrader](https://github.com/kieran-mackle/AutoTrader): A
  Python-based development platform for automated trading systems - from
  backtesting to optimisation to livetrading.
  <https://kieran-mackle.github.io/AutoTrader/>
- [lballabio/QuantLib](https://github.com/lballabio/QuantLib): The QuantLib C++
  library <http://quantlib.org/>
- [Drakkar-Software/OctoBot](https://github.com/Drakkar-Software/OctoBot):
  Cryptocurrency trading bot using technical analysis based strategy with an
  advanced web interface <https://www.octobot.online/>

## Backtesting

- [quarkfin/qf-lib](https://github.com/quarkfin/qf-lib): Modular Python library
  that provides an advanced event driven backtester and a set of high quality
  tools for quantitative finance. <https://quarkfin.github.io/qf-lib-info/>
- [polakowo/vectorbt](https://github.com/polakowo/vectorbt): Find your trading
  edge, using the fastest engine for backtesting, algorithmic trading, and
  research. <https://vectorbt.dev/>
- [anfederico/gemini](https://github.com/anfederico/gemini): Backtesting for
  sleepless cryptocurrency markets

## Portfolio

- [quantopian/alphalens](https://github.com/quantopian/alphalens): Performance
  analysis of predictive (alpha) stock factors
- [dcajasn/Riskfolio-Lib](https://github.com/dcajasn/Riskfolio-Lib): Portfolio
  Optimization and Quantitative Strategic Asset Allocation in Python

## Indicators

- [vollib/vollib](https://github.com/vollib/vollib): Fundamentally a swig/python
  wrapper around Peter Jaeckel's lets_be_rational. lets_be_rational focuses
  exclusively on Black76, while Vollib extends this to add support for
  Black-Scholes and Black-Scholes-Merton. <http://www.vollib.org/>
- [jasonstrimpel/volatility-trading](https://github.com/jasonstrimpel/volatility-trading):
  A complete set of volatility estimators based on Euan Sinclair's Volatility
  Trading

## API

- [Alpaca Finance](https://www.alpacafinance.org/): Alpaca Finance is the
  largest lending protocol allowing leveraged yield farming on BNB Chain.
- [Polygon](https://polygon.io/): Financial Market Data Platform Stock APIs,
  Forex, Crypto, and More
- [RomelTorres/alpha_vantage](https://github.com/RomelTorres/alpha_vantage): A
  python wrapper for Alpha Vantage API for financial data.
