scala.md, before:

# Scala

## Master these you rule the world

- [akka/akka](https://github.com/akka/akka): Build highly concurrent,
  distributed, and resilient message-driven applications on the JVM
  <https://akka.io/>
- [typelevel/cats-effect](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-effect): The pure
  asynchronous runtime for Scala <https://typelevel.org/cats-effect/>
- [zio/zio](https://github.com/zio/zio): ZIO — A type-safe, composable library
  for async and concurrent programming in Scala <https://zio.dev/>

## Serialization

- [plokhotnyuk/jsoniter-scala](https://github.com/plokhotnyuk/jsoniter-scala):
  Scala macros for compile-time generation of safe and ultra-fast JSON codecs
- [com-lihaoyi/upickle](https://github.com/com-lihaoyi/upickle): uPickle: a
  simple, fast, dependency-free JSON & Binary (MessagePack) serialization
  library for Scala <https://com-lihaoyi.github.io/upickle>

## Testing

- [reibitto/be-kind-rewind](https://github.com/reibitto/be-kind-rewind): A VCR
  testing library for Scala

## Misc

- [lloydmeta/enumeratum](https://github.com/lloydmeta/enumeratum): A type-safe,
  reflection-free, powerful enumeration implementation for Scala with exhaustive
  pattern match warnings and helpful integrations.
- [pureconfig/pureconfig](https://github.com/pureconfig/pureconfig): A
  boilerplate-free library for loading configuration files
- [scalatra/scalatra](https://github.com/scalatra/scalatra): Tiny Scala
  high-performance, async web framework, inspired by Sinatra
- [kamon-io/Kamon](https://github.com/kamon-io/Kamon): Distributed Tracing,
  Metrics and Context Propagation for applications running on the JVM
- [7mind/izumi](https://github.com/7mind/izumi): Productivity-oriented
  collection of lightweight fancy stuff for Scala toolchain
- [finagle/finch](https://github.com/finagle/finch): Scala combinator library
  for building Finagle HTTP services
- [softwaremill/macwire](https://github.com/softwaremill/macwire): Lightweight
  and Nonintrusive Scala Dependency Injection Library
- [milessabin/shapeless](https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless): Generic
  programming for Scala
- [optics-dev/monocle](https://github.com/optics-dev/monocle): Optics library
  for Scala <https://www.optics.dev/Monocle/>
- [arainko/ducktape](https://github.com/arainko/ducktape): The thing that glues
  your code. Or is it duct 🤔
- [lampepfl/dotty-macro-examples](https://github.com/lampepfl/dotty-macro-examples):
  Various tasks solved via metaprogramming in Dotty
- [raquo/Laminar](https://github.com/raquo/Laminar): Simple, expressive, and
  safe UI library for Scala.js <https://laminar.dev/>
- [scalameta/mdoc](https://github.com/scalameta/mdoc): Typechecked markdown
  documentation for Scala <https://scalameta.org/mdoc/>

## Akka

- [sangria-graphql/sangria](https://github.com/sangria-graphql/sangria): Scala
  GraphQL implementation <https://sangria-graphql.github.io/>
- [paypal/squbs](https://github.com/paypal/squbs): Akka Streams & Akka HTTP for
  Large-Scale Production Deployments <http://paypal.github.io/squbs>
- [ScalaConsultants/mesmer](https://github.com/ScalaConsultants/mesmer): Akka
  extension and agent exposing application telemetry and events via
  OpenTelemetry interface
- [ing-bank/baker](https://github.com/ing-bank/baker): Orchestrate
  microservice-based process flows <https://ing-bank.github.io/baker/>
- [awagen/kolibri](https://github.com/awagen/kolibri): Repository gathering all
  projects of Kolibri. Kolibri provides a framework for concurrent, clusterable
  multi-node executions. Its based on Akka, written in Scala. Initial use-case
  job definitions focus on evaluations of search systems and examples of state
  sharding. Given the flexibility of the implementation, more jobs are planned,
  such as load... <https://awagen.github.io/kolibri/>
- [akka/akka-persistence-r2dbc](https://github.com/akka/akka-persistence-r2dbc):
  R2DBC Plugin for Akka Persistence
  <https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-persistence-r2dbc/current/index.html>
- [endless4s/endless](https://github.com/endless4s/endless): Scala library to
  describe event sourced entities using tagless-final algebras
  <https://endless4s.github.io/>

## Typelevel

- [tofu-tf/tofu](https://github.com/tofu-tf/tofu): Functional programming
  toolbox <https://docs.tofu.tf>
- [typelevel/cats-tagless](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-tagless): Library
  of utilities for tagless final encoded algebras
  <https://typelevel.org/cats-tagless/>

## ZIO

- [ghostdogpr/caliban](https://github.com/ghostdogpr/caliban): Functional
  GraphQL library for Scala <https://ghostdogpr.github.io/caliban/>
- [devsisters/shardcake](https://github.com/devsisters/shardcake): Sharding and
  location transparency for Scala <https://devsisters.github.io/shardcake/>
- [dream11/zio-http](https://github.com/dream11/zio-http): A scala library to
  write Http apps. <https://dream11.github.io/zio-http>
- [softwaremill/saft](https://github.com/softwaremill/saft): An implementation
  of the Raft consensus algorithm, using the Scala language and a functional
  effect system (zio). Currently, the goal of this project is educational, not
  production usage.

## Build / sbt plugins

- [spray/sbt-revolver](https://github.com/spray/sbt-revolver): An SBT plugin for
  dangerously fast development turnaround in Scala
- [typelevel/scalac-options](https://github.com/typelevel/scalac-options): A
  library for configuring scalac options

## Tools

- [kitlangton/scala-update](https://github.com/kitlangton/scala-update): Update
  your Scala dependencies interactively
- [scalapy/scalapy](https://github.com/scalapy/scalapy): Use the world of Python
  from the comfort of Scala!
- [almond-sh/almond](https://github.com/almond-sh/almond): A Scala kernel for
  Jupyter <almond.sh>
- [seglo/kafka-lag-exporter](https://github.com/seglo/kafka-lag-exporter):
  Monitor Kafka Consumer Group Latency with Kafka Lag Exporter
- [scala/scala-async](https://github.com/scala/scala-async): An asynchronous
  programming facility for Scala
- [rssh/dotty-cps-async](https://github.com/rssh/dotty-cps-async): experimental
  CPS transformer for dotty
- [scalalandio/chimney](https://github.com/scalalandio/chimney): Scala library
  for boilerplate-free, type-safe data transformations
  <https://scalalandio.github.io/chimney/>

## Stream

- [TomasMikula/libretto](https://github.com/TomasMikula/libretto): Declarative
  concurrency and stream processing library for Scala
- [strymonas/strymonas](https://github.com/strymonas/strymonas): Fast streams
  for Scala 3

Commit message:

Add `cats-effect-cps` and `overrides`

scala.md, after:

# Scala

## Master these you rule the world

- [akka/akka](https://github.com/akka/akka): Build highly concurrent,
  distributed, and resilient message-driven applications on the JVM
  <https://akka.io/>
- [typelevel/cats-effect](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-effect): The pure
  asynchronous runtime for Scala <https://typelevel.org/cats-effect/>
- [zio/zio](https://github.com/zio/zio): ZIO — A type-safe, composable library
  for async and concurrent programming in Scala <https://zio.dev/>

## Serialization

- [plokhotnyuk/jsoniter-scala](https://github.com/plokhotnyuk/jsoniter-scala):
  Scala macros for compile-time generation of safe and ultra-fast JSON codecs
- [com-lihaoyi/upickle](https://github.com/com-lihaoyi/upickle): uPickle: a
  simple, fast, dependency-free JSON & Binary (MessagePack) serialization
  library for Scala <https://com-lihaoyi.github.io/upickle>

## Testing

- [reibitto/be-kind-rewind](https://github.com/reibitto/be-kind-rewind): A VCR
  testing library for Scala

## Misc

- [lloydmeta/enumeratum](https://github.com/lloydmeta/enumeratum): A type-safe,
  reflection-free, powerful enumeration implementation for Scala with exhaustive
  pattern match warnings and helpful integrations.
- [pureconfig/pureconfig](https://github.com/pureconfig/pureconfig): A
  boilerplate-free library for loading configuration files
- [scalatra/scalatra](https://github.com/scalatra/scalatra): Tiny Scala
  high-performance, async web framework, inspired by Sinatra
- [kamon-io/Kamon](https://github.com/kamon-io/Kamon): Distributed Tracing,
  Metrics and Context Propagation for applications running on the JVM
- [7mind/izumi](https://github.com/7mind/izumi): Productivity-oriented
  collection of lightweight fancy stuff for Scala toolchain
- [finagle/finch](https://github.com/finagle/finch): Scala combinator library
  for building Finagle HTTP services
- [softwaremill/macwire](https://github.com/softwaremill/macwire): Lightweight
  and Nonintrusive Scala Dependency Injection Library
- [milessabin/shapeless](https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless): Generic
  programming for Scala
- [optics-dev/monocle](https://github.com/optics-dev/monocle): Optics library
  for Scala <https://www.optics.dev/Monocle/>
- [arainko/ducktape](https://github.com/arainko/ducktape): The thing that glues
  your code. Or is it duct 🤔
- [lampepfl/dotty-macro-examples](https://github.com/lampepfl/dotty-macro-examples):
  Various tasks solved via metaprogramming in Dotty
- [raquo/Laminar](https://github.com/raquo/Laminar): Simple, expressive, and
  safe UI library for Scala.js <https://laminar.dev/>
- [scalameta/mdoc](https://github.com/scalameta/mdoc): Typechecked markdown
  documentation for Scala <https://scalameta.org/mdoc/>

## Akka

- [sangria-graphql/sangria](https://github.com/sangria-graphql/sangria): Scala
  GraphQL implementation <https://sangria-graphql.github.io/>
- [paypal/squbs](https://github.com/paypal/squbs): Akka Streams & Akka HTTP for
  Large-Scale Production Deployments <http://paypal.github.io/squbs>
- [ScalaConsultants/mesmer](https://github.com/ScalaConsultants/mesmer): Akka
  extension and agent exposing application telemetry and events via
  OpenTelemetry interface
- [ing-bank/baker](https://github.com/ing-bank/baker): Orchestrate
  microservice-based process flows <https://ing-bank.github.io/baker/>
- [awagen/kolibri](https://github.com/awagen/kolibri): Repository gathering all
  projects of Kolibri. Kolibri provides a framework for concurrent, clusterable
  multi-node executions. Its based on Akka, written in Scala. Initial use-case
  job definitions focus on evaluations of search systems and examples of state
  sharding. Given the flexibility of the implementation, more jobs are planned,
  such as load... <https://awagen.github.io/kolibri/>
- [akka/akka-persistence-r2dbc](https://github.com/akka/akka-persistence-r2dbc):
  R2DBC Plugin for Akka Persistence
  <https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-persistence-r2dbc/current/index.html>
- [endless4s/endless](https://github.com/endless4s/endless): Scala library to
  describe event sourced entities using tagless-final algebras
  <https://endless4s.github.io/>

## Typelevel

- [tofu-tf/tofu](https://github.com/tofu-tf/tofu): Functional programming
  toolbox <https://docs.tofu.tf>
- [typelevel/cats-tagless](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-tagless): Library
  of utilities for tagless final encoded algebras
  <https://typelevel.org/cats-tagless/>
- [typelevel/cats-effect-cps](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-effect-cps): An
  incubator project for async/await syntax support for Cats Effect

## ZIO

- [ghostdogpr/caliban](https://github.com/ghostdogpr/caliban): Functional
  GraphQL library for Scala <https://ghostdogpr.github.io/caliban/>
- [devsisters/shardcake](https://github.com/devsisters/shardcake): Sharding and
  location transparency for Scala <https://devsisters.github.io/shardcake/>
- [dream11/zio-http](https://github.com/dream11/zio-http): A scala library to
  write Http apps. <https://dream11.github.io/zio-http>
- [softwaremill/saft](https://github.com/softwaremill/saft): An implementation
  of the Raft consensus algorithm, using the Scala language and a functional
  effect system (zio). Currently, the goal of this project is educational, not
  production usage.

## Build / sbt plugins

- [spray/sbt-revolver](https://github.com/spray/sbt-revolver): An SBT plugin for
  dangerously fast development turnaround in Scala
- [typelevel/scalac-options](https://github.com/typelevel/scalac-options): A
  library for configuring scalac options

## Tools

- [kitlangton/scala-update](https://github.com/kitlangton/scala-update): Update
  your Scala dependencies interactively
- [scalapy/scalapy](https://github.com/scalapy/scalapy): Use the world of Python
  from the comfort of Scala!
- [almond-sh/almond](https://github.com/almond-sh/almond): A Scala kernel for
  Jupyter <almond.sh>
- [seglo/kafka-lag-exporter](https://github.com/seglo/kafka-lag-exporter):
  Monitor Kafka Consumer Group Latency with Kafka Lag Exporter
- [scala/scala-async](https://github.com/scala/scala-async): An asynchronous
  programming facility for Scala
- [rssh/dotty-cps-async](https://github.com/rssh/dotty-cps-async): experimental
  CPS transformer for dotty
- [scalalandio/chimney](https://github.com/scalalandio/chimney): Scala library
  for boilerplate-free, type-safe data transformations
  <https://scalalandio.github.io/chimney/>

## Stream

- [TomasMikula/libretto](https://github.com/TomasMikula/libretto): Declarative
  concurrency and stream processing library for Scala
- [strymonas/strymonas](https://github.com/strymonas/strymonas): Fast streams
  for Scala 3
