languages/javascript.md, before:

# Javascript / Typescript

## Resources

- [npmgraph](https://npmgraph.js.org/)
- [A list of JavaScript engines, runtimes, interpreters](https://gist.github.com/guest271314/bd292fc33e1b30dede0643a283fadc6a)
- 🌟 [typehero/typehero](https://github.com/typehero/typehero): Connect, collaborate, and grow with a community of TypeScript developers <https://typehero.dev>

## Books

- [sudongyuer/javascript-mental-models](https://github.com/sudongyuer/javascript-mental-models): 💘 帮助你建立良好的 JavaScript 心智模型 <https://sudongyuer.github.io/javascript-mental-models>
- [gibbok/typescript-book](https://github.com/gibbok/typescript-book): The Concise TypeScript Book: A Concise Guide to Effective Development in TypeScript. Free and Open Source.
- [lirantal/awesome-nodejs-security](https://github.com/lirantal/awesome-nodejs-security): Awesome Node.js Security resources

### Readings

- [The complexity of writing an efficient NodeJS Docker image](https://www.specfy.io/blog/1-efficient-dockerfile-nodejs-in-7-steps)
- [goldbergyoni/nodebestpractices](https://github.com/goldbergyoni/nodebestpractices): ✅ The Node.js best practices list (December 2023) <https://twitter.com/nodepractices/>

## Toolchain

### Env management

- [nodenv/nodenv](https://github.com/nodenv/nodenv): Manage multiple NodeJS versions.
- [tj/n](https://github.com/tj/n): Node version management
- 🌟 [Schniz/fnm](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm): 🚀 Fast and simple Node.js version manager, built in Rust <https://fnm.vercel.app>
- [volta-cli/volta](https://github.com/volta-cli/volta): Volta: JS Toolchains as Code. ⚡ <https://volta.sh>

### Tools

- [vercel/turbo](https://github.com/vercel/turbo): Incremental bundler and build system optimized for JavaScript and TypeScript, written in Rust – including Turbopack and Turborepo. <https://turbo.build>
- [AdiRishi/turborepo-remote-cache-cloudflare](https://github.com/AdiRishi/turborepo-remote-cache-cloudflare): An implementation of the turborepo-remote-cache server custom made for Cloudflare Workers <https://adirishi.github.io/turborepo-remote-cache-cloudflare/>
- [jsr-io/jsr](https://github.com/jsr-io/jsr): The open-source package registry for modern JavaScript and TypeScript <https://jsr.io>

### Bundler

- vite
- rolldown

### Runtime

- [oven-sh/bun](https://github.com/oven-sh/bun): Incredibly fast JavaScript runtime, bundler, transpiler and package manager – all in one. <https://bun.sh>
- [awslabs/llrt](https://github.com/awslabs/llrt): LLRT (Low Latency Runtime) is an experimental, lightweight JavaScript runtime designed to address the growing demand for fast and efficient Serverless applications.
- [TypeStrong/ts-node](https://github.com/TypeStrong/ts-node): TypeScript execution and REPL for node.js <https://typestrong.org/ts-node>
- [privatenumber/tsx](https://github.com/privatenumber/tsx): ⚡️ TypeScript Execute: Node.js enhanced to run TypeScript & ESM

### Testing

- [dubzzz/fast-check](https://github.com/dubzzz/fast-check): Property based testing framework for JavaScript (like QuickCheck) written in TypeScript <https://fast-check.dev/>
- [ealush/vest](https://github.com/ealush/vest): Vest ✅ Declarative validations framework <https://vestjs.dev/>
- [twoslashes/twoslash](https://github.com/twoslashes/twoslash): Markup for generating rich type information in your documentations ahead of time. <https://twoslash.netlify.app/>

### Linter / Formatter

- [webpro/knip](https://github.com/webpro/knip): Find unused files, dependencies and exports in your JS/TS project
- [quick-lint/quick-lint-js](https://github.com/quick-lint/quick-lint-js): quick-lint-js finds bugs in JavaScript programs <https://quick-lint-js.com>
- [sverweij/dependency-cruiser](https://github.com/sverweij/dependency-cruiser): Validate and visualize dependencies. Your rules. JavaScript, TypeScript, CoffeeScript. ES6, CommonJS, AMD. <https://npmjs.com/dependency-cruiser>

### Modernize

- 🌟 [SukkaW/nolyfill](https://github.com/SukkaW/nolyfill): Speed up your package installation process, reduce your disk usage, and extend the lifespan of your precious SSD.
- [unjs/mlly](https://github.com/unjs/mlly): 🤝 Missing ECMAScript module utils for Node.js
- [unjs/destr](https://github.com/unjs/destr): 🚀 Faster, secure and convenient alternative for JSON.parse

### Parser

- 🌟 [terser/terser](https://github.com/terser/terser): 🗜 JavaScript parser, mangler and compressor toolkit for ES6+ <https://terser.org>

## Functional libraries

### SerDe / Schema

- 🌟 [colinhacks/zod](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod): TypeScript-first schema validation with static type inference <https://zod.dev>
- [ajv-validator/ajv](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv): The fastest JSON schema Validator. Supports JSON Schema draft-04/06/07/2019-09/2020-12 and JSON Type Definition (RFC8927) <https://ajv.js.org>
- [ianstormtaylor/superstruct](https://github.com/ianstormtaylor/superstruct): A simple and composable way to validate data in JavaScript (and TypeScript). <https://docs.superstructjs.org/>
- [jquense/yup](https://github.com/jquense/yup): Dead simple Object schema validation
- [tskj/typescript-json-decoder](https://github.com/tskj/typescript-json-decoder): Json Decoder for Typescript
- [gcanti/io-ts](https://github.com/gcanti/io-ts): Runtime type system for IO decoding/encoding <https://gcanti.github.io/io-ts/>
- 🌟 [Effect-TS/schema](https://github.com/Effect-TS/schema): Modeling the schema of data structures as first-class values <https://effect-ts.github.io/schema>
- 🌟 [blitz-js/superjson](https://github.com/blitz-js/superjson): Safely serialize JavaScript expressions to a superset of JSON, which includes Dates, BigInts, and more.

### Parser

- [cheeriojs/cheerio](https://github.com/cheeriojs/cheerio): The fast, flexible, and elegant library for parsing and manipulating HTML and XML. <https://cheerio.js.org/>
- [xmldom/xmldom](https://github.com/xmldom/xmldom): A pure JavaScript W3C standard-based (XML DOM Level 2 Core) `DOMParser` and `XMLSerializer` module.
- [fb55/htmlparser2](https://github.com/fb55/htmlparser2): The fast & forgiving HTML and XML parser <https://feedic.com/htmlparser2>
- [inikulin/parse5](https://github.com/inikulin/parse5): HTML parsing/serialization toolset for Node.js. WHATWG HTML Living Standard (aka HTML5)-compliant.

### Date

- [iamkun/dayjs](https://github.com/iamkun/dayjs): ⏰ Day.js 2kB immutable date-time library alternative to Moment.js with the same modern API <https://day.js.org>
- [moment/luxon](https://github.com/moment/luxon): ⏱ A library for working with dates and times in JS <https://moment.github.io/luxon>
- 🌟 [jakubroztocil/rrule](https://github.com/jakubroztocil/rrule): JavaScript library for working with recurrence rules for calendar dates as defined in the iCalendar RFC and more. <https://jakubroztocil.github.io/rrule>
- [Hexagon/croner](https://github.com/Hexagon/croner): Trigger functions or evaluate cron expressions in JavaScript or TypeScript. No dependencies. Most features. Node. Deno. Bun. Browser. <https://croner.56k.guru>
- [formkit/tempo](https://github.com/formkit/tempo): 📆 Parse, format, manipulate, and internationalize dates and times in JavaScript and TypeScript. <https://tempo.formkit.com>

### Backend

- [drizzle-team/drizzle-orm](https://github.com/drizzle-team/drizzle-orm): TypeScript ORM that feels like writing SQL <https://orm.drizzle.team>
- [yomorun/presencejs](https://github.com/yomorun/presencejs): @yomo/presencejs ⚡️ made realtime web applications edge-aware by YoMo, WebTransport based, provide fallback to WebSocket automatically. <https://presence.js.org>

## Utils

- [komodojp/tinyld](https://github.com/komodojp/tinyld): Simple and Performant Language detection library for NodeJS <https://komodojp.github.io/tinyld/>
- [bradymholt/cRonstrue](https://github.com/bradymholt/cRonstrue): JavaScript library that translates Cron expressions into human readable descriptions <http://bradymholt.github.io/cRonstrue/>
- [simple-statistics/simple-statistics](https://github.com/simple-statistics/simple-statistics): simple statistics for node & browser javascript <http://simplestatistics.org/>
- [foliojs/pdfkit](https://github.com/foliojs/pdfkit): A JavaScript PDF generation library for Node and the browser <http://pdfkit.org/>
- [sindresorhus/image-dimensions](https://github.com/sindresorhus/image-dimensions): Get the dimensions of an image
- [mateogianolio/vectorious](https://github.com/mateogianolio/vectorious): Linear algebra in TypeScript. <https://docs.vectorious.org/vectorious/6.1.12>
- [vinejs/vine](https://github.com/vinejs/vine): VineJS is a form data validation library for Node.js
- [gildas-lormeau/zip.js](https://github.com/gildas-lormeau/zip.js): JavaScript library to zip and unzip files supporting multi-core compression, compression streams, zip64, split files and encryption. <https://gildas-lormeau.github.io/zip.js>
- [faker-js/faker](https://github.com/faker-js/faker): Generate massive amounts of fake data in the browser and node.js <https://fakerjs.dev>
- [snaplet/copycat](https://github.com/snaplet/copycat): Generate deterministic fake values: The same input will always generate the same fake-output. <https://www.snaplet.dev>
- [C2FO/fast-csv](https://github.com/C2FO/fast-csv): CSV parser and formatter for node <http://c2fo.github.io/fast-csv>
- [mholt/PapaParse](https://github.com/mholt/PapaParse): Fast and powerful CSV (delimited text) parser that gracefully handles large files and malformed input <http://PapaParse.com>
- [sindresorhus/execa](https://github.com/sindresorhus/execa): Process execution for humans
- [dolanmiu/docx](https://github.com/dolanmiu/docx): Easily generate and modify .docx files with JS/TS with a nice declarative API. Works for Node and on the Browser. <https://docx.js.org/>
- [vbuch/node-signpdf](https://github.com/vbuch/node-signpdf): Simple signing of PDFs in node.
- [tuffstuff9/nextjs-pdf-parser](https://github.com/tuffstuff9/nextjs-pdf-parser): Next.js template for seamless PDF parsing using pdf2json and FilePond. Ideal for developers seeking a ready-to-use solution for PDF content extraction in Next.js projects. <https://twitter.com/tuff_stuff9>
- [mozilla/pdf.js](https://github.com/mozilla/pdf.js): PDF Reader in JavaScript <https://mozilla.github.io/pdf.js/>
- [modesty/pdf2json](https://github.com/modesty/pdf2json): A PDF file parser that converts PDF binaries to text based JSON, powered by a fork of PDF.JS
- [xthezealot/npmprune](https://github.com/xthezealot/npmprune): Prune unnecessary files from node_modules
  - simple and easy LOL
- [open-cli-tools/concurrently](https://github.com/open-cli-tools/concurrently): Run commands concurrently. Like `npm run watch-js & npm run watch-less` but better. <https://www.npmjs.com/package/concurrently>
- [Perf Link](https://perf.link/)

## Middleware

- 🌟 [askorama/orama](https://github.com/askorama/orama): 🌌 Fast, dependency-free, full-text and vector search engine with typo tolerance, filters, facets, stemming, and more. Works with any JavaScript runtime, browser, server, service! <https://docs.oramasearch.com>
- [tinyplex/tinybase](https://github.com/tinyplex/tinybase): A tiny, reactive JavaScript library for structured state and tabular data. <https://tinybase.org>

## Misc

- [yunabe/tslab](https://github.com/yunabe/tslab): Interactive JavaScript and TypeScript programming with Jupyter
- [google/zx](https://github.com/google/zx): A tool for writing better scripts <https://google.github.io/zx/>
- [google/wireit](https://github.com/google/wireit): Wireit upgrades your npm scripts to make them smarter and more efficient.
- [Quilljou/transmart](https://github.com/Quilljou/transmart): Automate your i18n localization with AI
- [elilambnz/react-py](https://github.com/elilambnz/react-py): Effortlessly run Python code in your React apps. <https://elilambnz.github.io/react-py>

## Effect system on Typescript

- [gcanti/fp-ts](https://github.com/gcanti/fp-ts): Functional programming in TypeScript
- [Effect-TS/effect](https://github.com/Effect-TS/effect): A fully-fledged functional effect system for TypeScript with a rich standard library <https://effect-ts.github.io/effect>
- [gigobyte/purify](https://github.com/gigobyte/purify): Functional programming library for TypeScript <https://gigobyte.github.io/purify>

Commit message:

Add watchman, knex and Glasp

languages/javascript.md, after:

# Javascript / Typescript

## Resources

- [npmgraph](https://npmgraph.js.org/)
- [A list of JavaScript engines, runtimes, interpreters](https://gist.github.com/guest271314/bd292fc33e1b30dede0643a283fadc6a)
- 🌟 [typehero/typehero](https://github.com/typehero/typehero): Connect, collaborate, and grow with a community of TypeScript developers <https://typehero.dev>
- [Cypress Tips & Tricks](https://cypress.tips/)

## Books

- [sudongyuer/javascript-mental-models](https://github.com/sudongyuer/javascript-mental-models): 💘 帮助你建立良好的 JavaScript 心智模型 <https://sudongyuer.github.io/javascript-mental-models>
- [gibbok/typescript-book](https://github.com/gibbok/typescript-book): The Concise TypeScript Book: A Concise Guide to Effective Development in TypeScript. Free and Open Source.
- [lirantal/awesome-nodejs-security](https://github.com/lirantal/awesome-nodejs-security): Awesome Node.js Security resources

### Readings

- [The complexity of writing an efficient NodeJS Docker image](https://www.specfy.io/blog/1-efficient-dockerfile-nodejs-in-7-steps)
- [goldbergyoni/nodebestpractices](https://github.com/goldbergyoni/nodebestpractices): ✅ The Node.js best practices list (December 2023) <https://twitter.com/nodepractices/>

## Toolchain

### Env management

- [nodenv/nodenv](https://github.com/nodenv/nodenv): Manage multiple NodeJS versions.
- [tj/n](https://github.com/tj/n): Node version management
- 🌟 [Schniz/fnm](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm): 🚀 Fast and simple Node.js version manager, built in Rust <https://fnm.vercel.app>
- [volta-cli/volta](https://github.com/volta-cli/volta): Volta: JS Toolchains as Code. ⚡ <https://volta.sh>

### Tools

- [vercel/turbo](https://github.com/vercel/turbo): Incremental bundler and build system optimized for JavaScript and TypeScript, written in Rust – including Turbopack and Turborepo. <https://turbo.build>
- [AdiRishi/turborepo-remote-cache-cloudflare](https://github.com/AdiRishi/turborepo-remote-cache-cloudflare): An implementation of the turborepo-remote-cache server custom made for Cloudflare Workers <https://adirishi.github.io/turborepo-remote-cache-cloudflare/>
- [jsr-io/jsr](https://github.com/jsr-io/jsr): The open-source package registry for modern JavaScript and TypeScript <https://jsr.io>

### Bundler

- vite
- rolldown

### Runtime

- [oven-sh/bun](https://github.com/oven-sh/bun): Incredibly fast JavaScript runtime, bundler, transpiler and package manager – all in one. <https://bun.sh>
- [awslabs/llrt](https://github.com/awslabs/llrt): LLRT (Low Latency Runtime) is an experimental, lightweight JavaScript runtime designed to address the growing demand for fast and efficient Serverless applications.
- [TypeStrong/ts-node](https://github.com/TypeStrong/ts-node): TypeScript execution and REPL for node.js <https://typestrong.org/ts-node>
- [privatenumber/tsx](https://github.com/privatenumber/tsx): ⚡️ TypeScript Execute: Node.js enhanced to run TypeScript & ESM

### Testing

- [dubzzz/fast-check](https://github.com/dubzzz/fast-check): Property based testing framework for JavaScript (like QuickCheck) written in TypeScript <https://fast-check.dev/>
- [ealush/vest](https://github.com/ealush/vest): Vest ✅ Declarative validations framework <https://vestjs.dev/>
- [twoslashes/twoslash](https://github.com/twoslashes/twoslash): Markup for generating rich type information in your documentations ahead of time. <https://twoslash.netlify.app/>
- [mochajs/mocha](https://github.com/mochajs/mocha): ☕️ simple, flexible, fun javascript test framework for node.js & the browser <https://mochajs.org>
- [enzymejs/enzyme](https://github.com/enzymejs/enzyme): JavaScript Testing utilities for React <https://enzymejs.github.io/enzyme/>
- [chaijs/chai](https://github.com/chaijs/chai): BDD / TDD assertion framework for node.js and the browser that can be paired with any testing framework. <https://chaijs.github.io>
- [sinonjs/sinon](https://github.com/sinonjs/sinon): Test spies, stubs and mocks for JavaScript. <https://sinonjs.org/>

### Linter / Formatter

- [webpro/knip](https://github.com/webpro/knip): Find unused files, dependencies and exports in your JS/TS project
- [quick-lint/quick-lint-js](https://github.com/quick-lint/quick-lint-js): quick-lint-js finds bugs in JavaScript programs <https://quick-lint-js.com>
- [sverweij/dependency-cruiser](https://github.com/sverweij/dependency-cruiser): Validate and visualize dependencies. Your rules. JavaScript, TypeScript, CoffeeScript. ES6, CommonJS, AMD. <https://npmjs.com/dependency-cruiser>

### Modernize

- 🌟 [SukkaW/nolyfill](https://github.com/SukkaW/nolyfill): Speed up your package installation process, reduce your disk usage, and extend the lifespan of your precious SSD.
- [unjs/mlly](https://github.com/unjs/mlly): 🤝 Missing ECMAScript module utils for Node.js
- [unjs/destr](https://github.com/unjs/destr): 🚀 Faster, secure and convenient alternative for JSON.parse

### Parser

- 🌟 [terser/terser](https://github.com/terser/terser): 🗜 JavaScript parser, mangler and compressor toolkit for ES6+ <https://terser.org>

## Functional libraries

### SerDe / Schema

- 🌟 [colinhacks/zod](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod): TypeScript-first schema validation with static type inference <https://zod.dev>
- [ajv-validator/ajv](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv): The fastest JSON schema Validator. Supports JSON Schema draft-04/06/07/2019-09/2020-12 and JSON Type Definition (RFC8927) <https://ajv.js.org>
- [ianstormtaylor/superstruct](https://github.com/ianstormtaylor/superstruct): A simple and composable way to validate data in JavaScript (and TypeScript). <https://docs.superstructjs.org/>
- [jquense/yup](https://github.com/jquense/yup): Dead simple Object schema validation
- [tskj/typescript-json-decoder](https://github.com/tskj/typescript-json-decoder): Json Decoder for Typescript
- [gcanti/io-ts](https://github.com/gcanti/io-ts): Runtime type system for IO decoding/encoding <https://gcanti.github.io/io-ts/>
- 🌟 [Effect-TS/schema](https://github.com/Effect-TS/schema): Modeling the schema of data structures as first-class values <https://effect-ts.github.io/schema>
- 🌟 [blitz-js/superjson](https://github.com/blitz-js/superjson): Safely serialize JavaScript expressions to a superset of JSON, which includes Dates, BigInts, and more.

### Parser

- [cheeriojs/cheerio](https://github.com/cheeriojs/cheerio): The fast, flexible, and elegant library for parsing and manipulating HTML and XML. <https://cheerio.js.org/>
- [xmldom/xmldom](https://github.com/xmldom/xmldom): A pure JavaScript W3C standard-based (XML DOM Level 2 Core) `DOMParser` and `XMLSerializer` module.
- [fb55/htmlparser2](https://github.com/fb55/htmlparser2): The fast & forgiving HTML and XML parser <https://feedic.com/htmlparser2>
- [inikulin/parse5](https://github.com/inikulin/parse5): HTML parsing/serialization toolset for Node.js. WHATWG HTML Living Standard (aka HTML5)-compliant.

### Date

- [iamkun/dayjs](https://github.com/iamkun/dayjs): ⏰ Day.js 2kB immutable date-time library alternative to Moment.js with the same modern API <https://day.js.org>
- [moment/luxon](https://github.com/moment/luxon): ⏱ A library for working with dates and times in JS <https://moment.github.io/luxon>
- 🌟 [jakubroztocil/rrule](https://github.com/jakubroztocil/rrule): JavaScript library for working with recurrence rules for calendar dates as defined in the iCalendar RFC and more. <https://jakubroztocil.github.io/rrule>
- [Hexagon/croner](https://github.com/Hexagon/croner): Trigger functions or evaluate cron expressions in JavaScript or TypeScript. No dependencies. Most features. Node. Deno. Bun. Browser. <https://croner.56k.guru>
- [formkit/tempo](https://github.com/formkit/tempo): 📆 Parse, format, manipulate, and internationalize dates and times in JavaScript and TypeScript. <https://tempo.formkit.com>

### Backend

- [drizzle-team/drizzle-orm](https://github.com/drizzle-team/drizzle-orm): TypeScript ORM that feels like writing SQL <https://orm.drizzle.team>
- [knex/knex](https://github.com/knex/knex): A query builder for PostgreSQL, MySQL, CockroachDB, SQL Server, SQLite3 and Oracle, designed to be flexible, portable, and fun to use. <https://knexjs.org/>
- [yomorun/presencejs](https://github.com/yomorun/presencejs): @yomo/presencejs ⚡️ made realtime web applications edge-aware by YoMo, WebTransport based, provide fallback to WebSocket automatically. <https://presence.js.org>
- [gajus/slonik](https://github.com/gajus/slonik): A Node.js PostgreSQL client with runtime and build time type safety, and composable SQL.
- [Muhammad-Magdi/pgmq-js](https://github.com/Muhammad-Magdi/pgmq-js): Postgres Message Queue (PGMQ) JavaScript Client Library
- [hey-api/openapi-ts](https://github.com/hey-api/openapi-ts): Turn your OpenAPI specification into a beautiful TypeScript client <https://npmjs.com/package/@hey-api/openapi-ts>

## Utils

- [komodojp/tinyld](https://github.com/komodojp/tinyld): Simple and Performant Language detection library for NodeJS <https://komodojp.github.io/tinyld/>
- [bradymholt/cRonstrue](https://github.com/bradymholt/cRonstrue): JavaScript library that translates Cron expressions into human readable descriptions <http://bradymholt.github.io/cRonstrue/>
- [simple-statistics/simple-statistics](https://github.com/simple-statistics/simple-statistics): simple statistics for node & browser javascript <http://simplestatistics.org/>
- [foliojs/pdfkit](https://github.com/foliojs/pdfkit): A JavaScript PDF generation library for Node and the browser <http://pdfkit.org/>
- [sindresorhus/image-dimensions](https://github.com/sindresorhus/image-dimensions): Get the dimensions of an image
- [mateogianolio/vectorious](https://github.com/mateogianolio/vectorious): Linear algebra in TypeScript. <https://docs.vectorious.org/vectorious/6.1.12>
- [vinejs/vine](https://github.com/vinejs/vine): VineJS is a form data validation library for Node.js
- [gildas-lormeau/zip.js](https://github.com/gildas-lormeau/zip.js): JavaScript library to zip and unzip files supporting multi-core compression, compression streams, zip64, split files and encryption. <https://gildas-lormeau.github.io/zip.js>
- [faker-js/faker](https://github.com/faker-js/faker): Generate massive amounts of fake data in the browser and node.js <https://fakerjs.dev>
- [snaplet/copycat](https://github.com/snaplet/copycat): Generate deterministic fake values: The same input will always generate the same fake-output. <https://www.snaplet.dev>
- [C2FO/fast-csv](https://github.com/C2FO/fast-csv): CSV parser and formatter for node <http://c2fo.github.io/fast-csv>
- [mholt/PapaParse](https://github.com/mholt/PapaParse): Fast and powerful CSV (delimited text) parser that gracefully handles large files and malformed input <http://PapaParse.com>
- [sindresorhus/execa](https://github.com/sindresorhus/execa): Process execution for humans
- [dolanmiu/docx](https://github.com/dolanmiu/docx): Easily generate and modify .docx files with JS/TS with a nice declarative API. Works for Node and on the Browser. <https://docx.js.org/>
- [vbuch/node-signpdf](https://github.com/vbuch/node-signpdf): Simple signing of PDFs in node.
- [tuffstuff9/nextjs-pdf-parser](https://github.com/tuffstuff9/nextjs-pdf-parser): Next.js template for seamless PDF parsing using pdf2json and FilePond. Ideal for developers seeking a ready-to-use solution for PDF content extraction in Next.js projects. <https://twitter.com/tuff_stuff9>
- [mozilla/pdf.js](https://github.com/mozilla/pdf.js): PDF Reader in JavaScript <https://mozilla.github.io/pdf.js/>
- [modesty/pdf2json](https://github.com/modesty/pdf2json): A PDF file parser that converts PDF binaries to text based JSON, powered by a fork of PDF.JS
- [xthezealot/npmprune](https://github.com/xthezealot/npmprune): Prune unnecessary files from node_modules
  - simple and easy LOL
- [open-cli-tools/concurrently](https://github.com/open-cli-tools/concurrently): Run commands concurrently. Like `npm run watch-js & npm run watch-less` but better. <https://www.npmjs.com/package/concurrently>
- [Perf Link](https://perf.link/)

## Middleware

- 🌟 [askorama/orama](https://github.com/askorama/orama): 🌌 Fast, dependency-free, full-text and vector search engine with typo tolerance, filters, facets, stemming, and more. Works with any JavaScript runtime, browser, server, service! <https://docs.oramasearch.com>
- [tinyplex/tinybase](https://github.com/tinyplex/tinybase): A tiny, reactive JavaScript library for structured state and tabular data. <https://tinybase.org>

## Misc

- [yunabe/tslab](https://github.com/yunabe/tslab): Interactive JavaScript and TypeScript programming with Jupyter
- [google/zx](https://github.com/google/zx): A tool for writing better scripts <https://google.github.io/zx/>
- [google/wireit](https://github.com/google/wireit): Wireit upgrades your npm scripts to make them smarter and more efficient.
- [Quilljou/transmart](https://github.com/Quilljou/transmart): Automate your i18n localization with AI
- [elilambnz/react-py](https://github.com/elilambnz/react-py): Effortlessly run Python code in your React apps. <https://elilambnz.github.io/react-py>

## Effect system on Typescript

- [gcanti/fp-ts](https://github.com/gcanti/fp-ts): Functional programming in TypeScript
- [Effect-TS/effect](https://github.com/Effect-TS/effect): A fully-fledged functional effect system for TypeScript with a rich standard library <https://effect-ts.github.io/effect>
- [gigobyte/purify](https://github.com/gigobyte/purify): Functional programming library for TypeScript <https://gigobyte.github.io/purify>
