languages/scala.md, before:

# Scala

## Resources

### Reading

- [A practical guide to error handling in Scala Cats and Cats Effect](https://softwaremill.com/practical-guide-to-error-handling-in-scala-cats-and-cats-effect/)
- [slouc/concurrency-in-scala-with-ce](https://github.com/slouc/concurrency-in-scala-with-ce):
  Introduction to concepts of asynchronous and concurrent programming in Scala,
  based on the Cats Effect library.
- [EffectOrientedProgramming/book](https://github.com/EffectOrientedProgramming/book):
  Effect-Oriented Programming: Creating Reliable Systems with Scala 3 and ZIO 2
- [alexandru/scala-best-practices](https://github.com/alexandru/scala-best-practices):
  A collection of Scala best practices

### Exercises

- [superruzafa/visual-scala-reference](https://github.com/superruzafa/visual-scala-reference):
  Visual Scala Reference <https://superruzafa.github.io/visual-scala-reference>
- [Scala Exercises](https://www.scala-exercises.org/): Scala Exercises is an
  Open Source project for learning different technologies based in the Scala
  Programming Language.
- [lauris/awesome-scala](https://github.com/lauris/awesome-scala): A community
  driven list of useful Scala libraries, frameworks and software.
- [Zelenya/fs2-guide](https://github.com/Zelenya/fs2-guide): Interactive dive
  into fs2
- [YannMoisan/hands-on-cats](https://github.com/YannMoisan/hands-on-cats):
  Discover cats by coding a few simple exercises

## Master these you rule the world

- [akka/akka](https://github.com/akka/akka): Build highly concurrent,
  distributed, and resilient message-driven applications on the JVM
  <https://akka.io>
- [typelevel/cats-effect](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-effect): The pure
  asynchronous runtime for Scala <https://typelevel.org/cats-effect>
- [zio/zio](https://github.com/zio/zio): ZIO — A type-safe, composable library
  for async and concurrent programming in Scala <https://zio.dev>

### Benchmark

- [marcinzh/effect-zoo](https://github.com/marcinzh/effect-zoo): Effect Zoo for
  Scala

## Build

### Sbt plugins

- [spray/sbt-revolver](https://github.com/spray/sbt-revolver): An SBT plugin for
  dangerously fast development turnaround in Scala
- [typelevel/scalac-options](https://github.com/typelevel/scalac-options): A
  library for configuring scalac options
- [typelevel/sbt-tpolecat](https://github.com/typelevel/sbt-tpolecat): scalac
  options for the enlightened
- [ghik/zerowaste](https://github.com/ghik/zerowaste): Scala compiler plugin to
  detect unused expressions
- [sbt/sbt-dynver](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-dynver): An sbt plugin to
  dynamically set your version from git
- [sbt/sbt-license-report](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-license-report): Report on
  licenses used in an sbt project.
- [thesamet/sbt-protoc](https://github.com/thesamet/sbt-protoc): SBT plugin for
  generating code from Protocol Buffer using protoc
- [sbt/sbt-ci-release](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-ci-release): sbt plugin to
  automate Sonatype releases from GitHub Actions
- [sbt/sbt-github-actions](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-github-actions): An sbt
  plugin which makes it easier to build with GitHub Actions
- [sbt/sbt-header](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-header): sbt-header is an sbt
  plugin for creating file headers, e.g. copyright headers
- [ThoughtWorksInc/sbt-best-practice](https://github.com/ThoughtWorksInc/sbt-best-practice):
  Configure common build settings for a Scala project
- [sbt/sbt-unidoc](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-unidoc): sbt plugin to create a
  unified Scaladoc or Javadoc API document across multiple subprojects.

### Testing

- [reibitto/be-kind-rewind](https://github.com/reibitto/be-kind-rewind): A VCR
  testing library for Scala
- [disneystreaming/weaver-test](https://github.com/disneystreaming/weaver-test):
  A test framework that runs everything in parallel.
  <https://disneystreaming.github.io/weaver-test>
- [etorreborre/specs2](https://github.com/etorreborre/specs2):Software
  Specifications for Scala <https://etorreborre.github.io/specs2>

## Featured

- [softwaremill/macwire](https://github.com/softwaremill/macwire): Lightweight
  and Nonintrusive Scala Dependency Injection Library
- [yakivy/jam](https://github.com/yakivy/jam): Incredibly simple DI Scala
  library.
- [optics-dev/monocle](https://github.com/optics-dev/monocle): Optics library
  for Scala <https://www.optics.dev/Monocle>
- [7mind/izumi](https://github.com/7mind/izumi): Productivity-oriented
  collection of lightweight fancy stuff for Scala toolchain
- [wix/greyhound](https://github.com/wix/greyhound): Greyhound - Rich Kafka
  client library
- [scalapb-json/scalapb-circe](https://github.com/scalapb-json/scalapb-circe):
  Json/Protobuf convertors for ScalaPB use circe
- [j-mie6/parsley](https://github.com/j-mie6/parsley): A fast and modern parser
  combinator library for Scala
- [AugustNagro/magnum](https://github.com/AugustNagro/magnum): A 'new look' for
  database access in Scala
- [raquo/Airstream](https://github.com/raquo/Airstream): State propagation and
  event streams with mandatory ownership and no glitches
- [pathikrit/better-files](https://github.com/pathikrit/better-files): Simple,
  safe and intuitive Scala I/O <https://pathikrit.github.io/better-files/>
- [agourlay/cornichon](https://github.com/agourlay/cornichon): Scala DSL for
  testing HTTP JSON API <http://agourlay.github.io/cornichon>

### Experiments

- [scala/scala-async](https://github.com/scala/scala-async): An asynchronous
  programming facility for Scala
- [rssh/dotty-cps-async](https://github.com/rssh/dotty-cps-async): experimental
  CPS transformer for dotty
- [lampepfl/async](https://github.com/lampepfl/async): A strawman for a
  low-level async library in Scala 3
- [sideeffffect/scala-rust-interop](https://github.com/sideeffffect/scala-rust-interop):
  Scala <-> Rust interop
- [softwaremill/ox](https://github.com/softwaremill/ox): Developer-friendly
  structured concurrency library for the JVM
  <https://softwaremill.community/c/ox/12>

### Types

- [fthomas/refined](https://github.com/fthomas/refined): Refinement types for
  Scala
- [Iltotore/iron](https://github.com/Iltotore/iron): Strong type constraints for
  Scala <https://iltotore.github.io/iron/docs>
- [scalalandio/chimney](https://github.com/scalalandio/chimney): Scala library
  for boilerplate-free, type-safe data transformations
  <https://scalalandio.github.io/chimney>
- 🌟 [arainko/ducktape](https://github.com/arainko/ducktape): Automatic and
  customizable compile time transformations between similar case classes and
  sealed traits/enums, essentially a thing that glues your code. Scala 3 only.
  Or is it duct 🤔
- 🌟 [epfl-lara/stainless](https://github.com/epfl-lara/stainless): Verification
  framework and tool for higher-order Scala programs <https://stainless.epfl.ch>
- [earldouglas/linear-scala](https://github.com/earldouglas/linear-scala):
  Linear types in Scala
- [scala-ts/scala-ts](https://github.com/scala-ts/scala-ts): 🔧 Scala datamodel
  transpiler <https://scala-ts.github.io/scala-ts>

### Serialization

- [plokhotnyuk/jsoniter-scala](https://github.com/plokhotnyuk/jsoniter-scala):
  Scala macros for compile-time generation of safe and ultra-fast JSON codecs
- [com-lihaoyi/upickle](https://github.com/com-lihaoyi/upickle): uPickle: a
  simple, fast, dependency-free JSON & Binary (MessagePack) serialization
  library for Scala <https://com-lihaoyi.github.io/upickle>
- [pureconfig/pureconfig](https://github.com/pureconfig/pureconfig): A
  boilerplate-free library for loading configuration files
- [typelevel/fabric](https://github.com/typelevel/fabric): Object-Notation
  Abstraction for JSON, binary, HOCON, etc.
- [jwt-scala/jwt-scala](https://github.com/jwt-scala/jwt-scala): JWT support for
  Scala. Bonus extensions for Play, Play JSON, Json4s, Circe, uPickle, Spray and
  Argonaut <https://jwt-scala.github.io/jwt-scala/>

### Logging

- 🌟 [outr/scribe](https://github.com/outr/scribe): The fastest logging library
  in the world. Built from scratch in Scala and programmatically configurable.

### Tracing

- [kamon-io/Kamon](https://github.com/kamon-io/Kamon): Distributed Tracing,
  Metrics and Context Propagation for applications running on the JVM

### Clients

- [tpolecat/skunk](https://github.com/tpolecat/skunk): A data access library for
  Scala + Postgres.
- [armanbilge/porcupine](https://github.com/armanbilge/porcupine):
  Skunk-inspired library for SQLite on JVM, Node.js, and Native
- [postgresql-async/postgresql-async](https://github.com/postgresql-async/postgresql-async):
  Async, Netty based, database drivers for PostgreSQL and MySQL written in Scala
- [ReactiveMongo/ReactiveMongo](https://github.com/ReactiveMongo/ReactiveMongo):
  🍃 Non-blocking, Reactive MongoDB Driver for Scala <http://reactivemongo.org>

### Misc

- [scalatra/scalatra](https://github.com/scalatra/scalatra): Tiny Scala
  high-performance, async web framework, inspired by Sinatra
- [finagle/finch](https://github.com/finagle/finch): Scala combinator library
  for building Finagle HTTP services
- [raquo/Laminar](https://github.com/raquo/Laminar): Simple, expressive, and
  safe UI library for Scala.js <https://laminar.dev>
- [PurpleKingdomGames/tyrian](https://github.com/PurpleKingdomGames/tyrian):
  Elm-inspired Scala UI library. <https://tyrian.indigoengine.io>
- [scalameta/mdoc](https://github.com/scalameta/mdoc): Typechecked markdown
  documentation for Scala <https://scalameta.org/mdoc>
- [oyvindberg/tui-scala](https://github.com/oyvindberg/tui-scala): Beautiful
  Text-based User Interfaces for Scala
- [com-lihaoyi/PPrint](https://github.com/com-lihaoyi/PPrint): Pretty-printing
  value, types and type-signatures in Scala
  <https://com-lihaoyi.github.io/PPrint/>
- [scala-native/scala-native-cli](https://github.com/scala-native/scala-native-cli):
  Command Line Interface for Scala Native
- https://github.com/vpavkin/dtc
- https://github.com/cquiroz/scala-java-time

### Tools

- [kitlangton/scala-update](https://github.com/kitlangton/scala-update): Update
  your Scala dependencies interactively
- [scalapy/scalapy](https://github.com/scalapy/scalapy): Use the world of Python
  from the comfort of Scala!
- [almond-sh/almond](https://github.com/almond-sh/almond): A Scala kernel for
  Jupyter <https://almond.sh>
- [polynote/polynote](https://github.com/polynote/polynote): A better notebook
  for Scala (and more) <https://polynote.org>
- [seglo/kafka-lag-exporter](https://github.com/seglo/kafka-lag-exporter):
  Monitor Kafka Consumer Group Latency with Kafka Lag Exporter
- [lampepfl/dotty-macro-examples](https://github.com/lampepfl/dotty-macro-examples):
  Various tasks solved via metaprogramming in Dotty
- [wartremover/wartremover](https://github.com/wartremover/wartremover):
  Flexible Scala code linting tool <https://www.wartremover.org>
- [makingthematrix/signals3](https://github.com/makingthematrix/signals3): A
  lightweight event streaming library for Scala 3
- [scala/toolkit](https://github.com/scala/toolkit): The batteries-included
  Scala
- [earldouglas/sbt-lit](https://github.com/earldouglas/sbt-lit): Literate
  programming with sbt
- [lightbend/mima](https://github.com/lightbend/mima): A tool for catching
  binary incompatibility in Scala

## Stream / Effect systems / Experiments

- 🌟 [atnos-org/eff](https://github.com/atnos-org/eff): Eff monad for cats
  <https://atnos-org.github.io/eff>
- [TomasMikula/libretto](https://github.com/TomasMikula/libretto): Declarative
  concurrency and stream processing library for Scala
- [strymonas/strymonas](https://github.com/strymonas/strymonas): Fast streams
  for Scala 3
- [fwbrasil/kyo](https://github.com/fwbrasil/kyo): High-performance composable
  effects for Scala 3
- [marcinzh/turbolift](https://github.com/marcinzh/turbolift): Algebraic Effects
  for Scala 3 <https://marcinzh.github.io/turbolift>

## War of eco systems

### Akka

- [sangria-graphql/sangria](https://github.com/sangria-graphql/sangria): Scala
  GraphQL implementation <https://sangria-graphql.github.io>
- [paypal/squbs](https://github.com/paypal/squbs): Akka Streams & Akka HTTP for
  Large-Scale Production Deployments <http://paypal.github.io/squbs>
- [ScalaConsultants/mesmer](https://github.com/ScalaConsultants/mesmer): Akka
  extension and agent exposing application telemetry and events via
  OpenTelemetry interface
- [ing-bank/baker](https://github.com/ing-bank/baker): Orchestrate
  microservice-based process flows <https://ing-bank.github.io/baker>
- [awagen/kolibri](https://github.com/awagen/kolibri): Repository gathering all
  projects of Kolibri. Kolibri provides a framework for concurrent, clusterable
  multi-node executions. Its based on Akka, written in Scala. Initial use-case
  job definitions focus on evaluations of search systems and examples of state
  sharding. Given the flexibility of the implementation, more jobs are planned,
  such as load... <https://awagen.github.io/kolibri>
- [akka/akka-persistence-r2dbc](https://github.com/akka/akka-persistence-r2dbc):
  R2DBC Plugin for Akka Persistence
  <https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-persistence-r2dbc/current/index.html>
- [endless4s/endless](https://github.com/endless4s/endless): Scala library to
  describe event sourced entities using tagless-final algebras
  <https://endless4s.github.io>
- [scredis/scredis](https://github.com/scredis/scredis): Non-blocking,
  ultra-fast Scala Redis client built on top of Akka IO.
  <https://scredis.github.io/scredis/>
- [hseeberger/akka-http-json](https://github.com/hseeberger/akka-http-json):
  Integrate some of the best JSON libs in Scala with Akka HTTP

### Typelevel

- [tofu-tf/tofu](https://github.com/tofu-tf/tofu): Functional programming
  toolbox <https://docs.tofu.tf>
- [typelevel/cats-tagless](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-tagless): Library
  of utilities for tagless final encoded algebras
  <https://typelevel.org/cats-tagless>
- [higherkindness/droste](https://github.com/higherkindness/droste): recursion
  schemes for cats; to iterate is human, to recurse, divine
- [typelevel/kittens](https://github.com/typelevel/kittens): Automatic type
  class derivation for Cats
- [typelevel/cats-effect-cps](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-effect-cps): An
  incubator project for async/await syntax support for Cats Effect
- [typelevel/log4cats](https://github.com/typelevel/log4cats): Logging Tools For
  Interaction with cats-effect <https://typelevel.org/log4cats/>
- 🌟 [LEGO/woof](https://github.com/LEGO/woof): A pure Scala 3 logging library
  with no reflection
- [tpolecat/natchez](https://github.com/tpolecat/natchez): functional tracing
  for cats
- [typelevel/otel4s](https://github.com/typelevel/otel4s): An OpenTelemetry
  library for Scala based on Cats-Effect
- 🌟 [trace4cats/trace4cats](https://github.com/trace4cats/trace4cats):
  Distributed app tracing implementation in pure scala using cats-effect
- [bkirwi/decline](https://github.com/bkirwi/decline): A composable command-line
  parser for Scala. <https://ben.kirw.in/decline/>
- [typelevel/toolkit](https://github.com/typelevel/toolkit): Quickstart your
  next app with the Typelevel Toolkit!
- [cb372/cats-retry](https://github.com/cb372/cats-retry): A library for
  retrying actions that can fail. <https://cb372.github.io/cats-retry/>
- [fd4s/fs2-kafka](https://github.com/fd4s/fs2-kafka): Functional Kafka Streams
  for Scala <https://fd4s.github.io/fs2-kafka>
- [typelevel/scalacheck-effect](https://github.com/typelevel/scalacheck-effect):
  Effectful property testing built on ScalaCheck
- [typelevel/cats-effect-testing](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-effect-testing):
  Integration between cats-effect and test frameworks
- [typelevel/munit-cats-effect](https://github.com/typelevel/munit-cats-effect):
  Integration library for MUnit & cats-effect
- [armanbilge/calico](https://github.com/armanbilge/calico): Pure, reactive UI
  library for Scala.js <https://armanbilge.github.io/calico>
- [evolution-gaming/scache](https://github.com/evolution-gaming/scache): Cache
  in Scala with cats-effect
- [mockito/mockito-scala](https://github.com/mockito/mockito-scala): Mockito for
  Scala language <http://mockito.org>
- [http4s/http4s-armeria](https://github.com/http4s/http4s-armeria): Armeria
  backend for http4s

### ZIO

- [ghostdogpr/zio-cheatsheet](https://github.com/ghostdogpr/zio-cheatsheet): ZIO
  Cheat Sheet
- [ghostdogpr/caliban](https://github.com/ghostdogpr/caliban): Functional
  GraphQL library for Scala <https://ghostdogpr.github.io/caliban>
- [devsisters/shardcake](https://github.com/devsisters/shardcake): Sharding and
  location transparency for Scala <https://devsisters.github.io/shardcake>
- [dream11/zio-http](https://github.com/dream11/zio-http): A scala library to
  write Http apps. <https://dream11.github.io/zio-http>
- [tailcallhq/zio-compose](https://github.com/tailcallhq/zio-compose): A Scala
  DSL to write type-safe programs for distributed computing
- [hmemcpy/zio-clippy](https://github.com/hmemcpy/zio-clippy): A Scala compiler
  plugin for better ZIO type mismatch errors.

## Could we make Scala great again?

## for Data Intensive System

- [Kotlin/multik](https://github.com/Kotlin/multik): Multidimensional array
  library for Kotlin. <https://kotlin.github.io/multik/>
- [Kotlin/dataframe](https://github.com/Kotlin/dataframe): Structured data
  processing in Kotlin <https://kotlin.github.io/dataframe/>
- [haifengl/smile](https://github.com/haifengl/smile): Statistical Machine
  Intelligence & Learning Engine <https://haifengl.github.io/>
- [SciProgCentre/kmath](https://github.com/SciProgCentre/kmath): Kotlin
  mathematics extensions library
- [dragonfly-ai/vector](https://github.com/dragonfly-ai/vector): A Scala.js
  Vector and Math library for image processing, scientific/information
  visualization, and game development.

Commit message:

Add sbt-crossproject, parquet4s and Linear Algebra Done Right

languages/scala.md, after:

# Scala

## Resources

### Reading

- [A practical guide to error handling in Scala Cats and Cats Effect](https://softwaremill.com/practical-guide-to-error-handling-in-scala-cats-and-cats-effect/)
- [slouc/concurrency-in-scala-with-ce](https://github.com/slouc/concurrency-in-scala-with-ce):
  Introduction to concepts of asynchronous and concurrent programming in Scala,
  based on the Cats Effect library.
- [EffectOrientedProgramming/book](https://github.com/EffectOrientedProgramming/book):
  Effect-Oriented Programming: Creating Reliable Systems with Scala 3 and ZIO 2
- [alexandru/scala-best-practices](https://github.com/alexandru/scala-best-practices):
  A collection of Scala best practices

### Exercises

- [superruzafa/visual-scala-reference](https://github.com/superruzafa/visual-scala-reference):
  Visual Scala Reference <https://superruzafa.github.io/visual-scala-reference>
- [Scala Exercises](https://www.scala-exercises.org/): Scala Exercises is an
  Open Source project for learning different technologies based in the Scala
  Programming Language.
- [lauris/awesome-scala](https://github.com/lauris/awesome-scala): A community
  driven list of useful Scala libraries, frameworks and software.
- [Zelenya/fs2-guide](https://github.com/Zelenya/fs2-guide): Interactive dive
  into fs2
- [YannMoisan/hands-on-cats](https://github.com/YannMoisan/hands-on-cats):
  Discover cats by coding a few simple exercises

## Master these you rule the world

- [akka/akka](https://github.com/akka/akka): Build highly concurrent,
  distributed, and resilient message-driven applications on the JVM
  <https://akka.io>
- [typelevel/cats-effect](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-effect): The pure
  asynchronous runtime for Scala <https://typelevel.org/cats-effect>
- [zio/zio](https://github.com/zio/zio): ZIO — A type-safe, composable library
  for async and concurrent programming in Scala <https://zio.dev>

### Benchmark

- [marcinzh/effect-zoo](https://github.com/marcinzh/effect-zoo): Effect Zoo for
  Scala

## Build

### Sbt plugins

- [spray/sbt-revolver](https://github.com/spray/sbt-revolver): An SBT plugin for
  dangerously fast development turnaround in Scala
- [typelevel/scalac-options](https://github.com/typelevel/scalac-options): A
  library for configuring scalac options
- [typelevel/sbt-tpolecat](https://github.com/typelevel/sbt-tpolecat): scalac
  options for the enlightened
- [ghik/zerowaste](https://github.com/ghik/zerowaste): Scala compiler plugin to
  detect unused expressions
- [sbt/sbt-dynver](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-dynver): An sbt plugin to
  dynamically set your version from git
- [sbt/sbt-license-report](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-license-report): Report on
  licenses used in an sbt project.
- [thesamet/sbt-protoc](https://github.com/thesamet/sbt-protoc): SBT plugin for
  generating code from Protocol Buffer using protoc
- [sbt/sbt-ci-release](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-ci-release): sbt plugin to
  automate Sonatype releases from GitHub Actions
- [sbt/sbt-github-actions](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-github-actions): An sbt
  plugin which makes it easier to build with GitHub Actions
- [sbt/sbt-header](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-header): sbt-header is an sbt
  plugin for creating file headers, e.g. copyright headers
- [ThoughtWorksInc/sbt-best-practice](https://github.com/ThoughtWorksInc/sbt-best-practice):
  Configure common build settings for a Scala project
- [sbt/sbt-unidoc](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-unidoc): sbt plugin to create a
  unified Scaladoc or Javadoc API document across multiple subprojects.
- [portable-scala/sbt-crossproject](https://github.com/portable-scala/sbt-crossproject):
  Cross-platform compilation support for sbt.

### Testing

- [reibitto/be-kind-rewind](https://github.com/reibitto/be-kind-rewind): A VCR
  testing library for Scala
- [disneystreaming/weaver-test](https://github.com/disneystreaming/weaver-test):
  A test framework that runs everything in parallel.
  <https://disneystreaming.github.io/weaver-test>
- [etorreborre/specs2](https://github.com/etorreborre/specs2):Software
  Specifications for Scala <https://etorreborre.github.io/specs2>

## Featured

- [softwaremill/macwire](https://github.com/softwaremill/macwire): Lightweight
  and Nonintrusive Scala Dependency Injection Library
- [yakivy/jam](https://github.com/yakivy/jam): Incredibly simple DI Scala
  library.
- [optics-dev/monocle](https://github.com/optics-dev/monocle): Optics library
  for Scala <https://www.optics.dev/Monocle>
- [7mind/izumi](https://github.com/7mind/izumi): Productivity-oriented
  collection of lightweight fancy stuff for Scala toolchain
- [wix/greyhound](https://github.com/wix/greyhound): Greyhound - Rich Kafka
  client library
- [scalapb-json/scalapb-circe](https://github.com/scalapb-json/scalapb-circe):
  Json/Protobuf convertors for ScalaPB use circe
- [j-mie6/parsley](https://github.com/j-mie6/parsley): A fast and modern parser
  combinator library for Scala
- [AugustNagro/magnum](https://github.com/AugustNagro/magnum): A 'new look' for
  database access in Scala
- [raquo/Airstream](https://github.com/raquo/Airstream): State propagation and
  event streams with mandatory ownership and no glitches
- [pathikrit/better-files](https://github.com/pathikrit/better-files): Simple,
  safe and intuitive Scala I/O <https://pathikrit.github.io/better-files/>
- [agourlay/cornichon](https://github.com/agourlay/cornichon): Scala DSL for
  testing HTTP JSON API <http://agourlay.github.io/cornichon>
- [mjakubowski84/parquet4s](https://github.com/mjakubowski84/parquet4s): Read
  and write Parquet in Scala. Use Scala classes as schema. No need to start a
  cluster. <https://mjakubowski84.github.io/parquet4s/>

### Experiments

- [scala/scala-async](https://github.com/scala/scala-async): An asynchronous
  programming facility for Scala
- [rssh/dotty-cps-async](https://github.com/rssh/dotty-cps-async): experimental
  CPS transformer for dotty
- [lampepfl/async](https://github.com/lampepfl/async): A strawman for a
  low-level async library in Scala 3
- [sideeffffect/scala-rust-interop](https://github.com/sideeffffect/scala-rust-interop):
  Scala <-> Rust interop
- [softwaremill/ox](https://github.com/softwaremill/ox): Developer-friendly
  structured concurrency library for the JVM
  <https://softwaremill.community/c/ox/12>

### Types

- [fthomas/refined](https://github.com/fthomas/refined): Refinement types for
  Scala
- [Iltotore/iron](https://github.com/Iltotore/iron): Strong type constraints for
  Scala <https://iltotore.github.io/iron/docs>
- [scalalandio/chimney](https://github.com/scalalandio/chimney): Scala library
  for boilerplate-free, type-safe data transformations
  <https://scalalandio.github.io/chimney>
- 🌟 [arainko/ducktape](https://github.com/arainko/ducktape): Automatic and
  customizable compile time transformations between similar case classes and
  sealed traits/enums, essentially a thing that glues your code. Scala 3 only.
  Or is it duct 🤔
- 🌟 [epfl-lara/stainless](https://github.com/epfl-lara/stainless): Verification
  framework and tool for higher-order Scala programs <https://stainless.epfl.ch>
- [earldouglas/linear-scala](https://github.com/earldouglas/linear-scala):
  Linear types in Scala
- [scala-ts/scala-ts](https://github.com/scala-ts/scala-ts): 🔧 Scala datamodel
  transpiler <https://scala-ts.github.io/scala-ts>

### Serialization

- [plokhotnyuk/jsoniter-scala](https://github.com/plokhotnyuk/jsoniter-scala):
  Scala macros for compile-time generation of safe and ultra-fast JSON codecs
- [com-lihaoyi/upickle](https://github.com/com-lihaoyi/upickle): uPickle: a
  simple, fast, dependency-free JSON & Binary (MessagePack) serialization
  library for Scala <https://com-lihaoyi.github.io/upickle>
- [pureconfig/pureconfig](https://github.com/pureconfig/pureconfig): A
  boilerplate-free library for loading configuration files
- [typelevel/fabric](https://github.com/typelevel/fabric): Object-Notation
  Abstraction for JSON, binary, HOCON, etc.
- [jwt-scala/jwt-scala](https://github.com/jwt-scala/jwt-scala): JWT support for
  Scala. Bonus extensions for Play, Play JSON, Json4s, Circe, uPickle, Spray and
  Argonaut <https://jwt-scala.github.io/jwt-scala/>

### Logging

- 🌟 [outr/scribe](https://github.com/outr/scribe): The fastest logging library
  in the world. Built from scratch in Scala and programmatically configurable.

### Tracing

- [kamon-io/Kamon](https://github.com/kamon-io/Kamon): Distributed Tracing,
  Metrics and Context Propagation for applications running on the JVM

### Clients

- [tpolecat/skunk](https://github.com/tpolecat/skunk): A data access library for
  Scala + Postgres.
- [armanbilge/porcupine](https://github.com/armanbilge/porcupine):
  Skunk-inspired library for SQLite on JVM, Node.js, and Native
- [postgresql-async/postgresql-async](https://github.com/postgresql-async/postgresql-async):
  Async, Netty based, database drivers for PostgreSQL and MySQL written in Scala
- [ReactiveMongo/ReactiveMongo](https://github.com/ReactiveMongo/ReactiveMongo):
  🍃 Non-blocking, Reactive MongoDB Driver for Scala <http://reactivemongo.org>

### Misc

- [scalatra/scalatra](https://github.com/scalatra/scalatra): Tiny Scala
  high-performance, async web framework, inspired by Sinatra
- [finagle/finch](https://github.com/finagle/finch): Scala combinator library
  for building Finagle HTTP services
- [raquo/Laminar](https://github.com/raquo/Laminar): Simple, expressive, and
  safe UI library for Scala.js <https://laminar.dev>
- [PurpleKingdomGames/tyrian](https://github.com/PurpleKingdomGames/tyrian):
  Elm-inspired Scala UI library. <https://tyrian.indigoengine.io>
- [scalameta/mdoc](https://github.com/scalameta/mdoc): Typechecked markdown
  documentation for Scala <https://scalameta.org/mdoc>
- [oyvindberg/tui-scala](https://github.com/oyvindberg/tui-scala): Beautiful
  Text-based User Interfaces for Scala
- [com-lihaoyi/PPrint](https://github.com/com-lihaoyi/PPrint): Pretty-printing
  value, types and type-signatures in Scala
  <https://com-lihaoyi.github.io/PPrint/>
- [scala-native/scala-native-cli](https://github.com/scala-native/scala-native-cli):
  Command Line Interface for Scala Native
- https://github.com/vpavkin/dtc
- https://github.com/cquiroz/scala-java-time

### Tools

- [kitlangton/scala-update](https://github.com/kitlangton/scala-update): Update
  your Scala dependencies interactively
- [scalapy/scalapy](https://github.com/scalapy/scalapy): Use the world of Python
  from the comfort of Scala!
- [almond-sh/almond](https://github.com/almond-sh/almond): A Scala kernel for
  Jupyter <https://almond.sh>
- [polynote/polynote](https://github.com/polynote/polynote): A better notebook
  for Scala (and more) <https://polynote.org>
- [seglo/kafka-lag-exporter](https://github.com/seglo/kafka-lag-exporter):
  Monitor Kafka Consumer Group Latency with Kafka Lag Exporter
- [lampepfl/dotty-macro-examples](https://github.com/lampepfl/dotty-macro-examples):
  Various tasks solved via metaprogramming in Dotty
- [wartremover/wartremover](https://github.com/wartremover/wartremover):
  Flexible Scala code linting tool <https://www.wartremover.org>
- [makingthematrix/signals3](https://github.com/makingthematrix/signals3): A
  lightweight event streaming library for Scala 3
- [scala/toolkit](https://github.com/scala/toolkit): The batteries-included
  Scala
- [earldouglas/sbt-lit](https://github.com/earldouglas/sbt-lit): Literate
  programming with sbt
- [lightbend/mima](https://github.com/lightbend/mima): A tool for catching
  binary incompatibility in Scala

## Stream / Effect systems / Experiments

- 🌟 [atnos-org/eff](https://github.com/atnos-org/eff): Eff monad for cats
  <https://atnos-org.github.io/eff>
- [TomasMikula/libretto](https://github.com/TomasMikula/libretto): Declarative
  concurrency and stream processing library for Scala
- [strymonas/strymonas](https://github.com/strymonas/strymonas): Fast streams
  for Scala 3
- [fwbrasil/kyo](https://github.com/fwbrasil/kyo): High-performance composable
  effects for Scala 3
- [marcinzh/turbolift](https://github.com/marcinzh/turbolift): Algebraic Effects
  for Scala 3 <https://marcinzh.github.io/turbolift>

## War of eco systems

### Akka

- [sangria-graphql/sangria](https://github.com/sangria-graphql/sangria): Scala
  GraphQL implementation <https://sangria-graphql.github.io>
- [paypal/squbs](https://github.com/paypal/squbs): Akka Streams & Akka HTTP for
  Large-Scale Production Deployments <http://paypal.github.io/squbs>
- [ScalaConsultants/mesmer](https://github.com/ScalaConsultants/mesmer): Akka
  extension and agent exposing application telemetry and events via
  OpenTelemetry interface
- [ing-bank/baker](https://github.com/ing-bank/baker): Orchestrate
  microservice-based process flows <https://ing-bank.github.io/baker>
- [awagen/kolibri](https://github.com/awagen/kolibri): Repository gathering all
  projects of Kolibri. Kolibri provides a framework for concurrent, clusterable
  multi-node executions. Its based on Akka, written in Scala. Initial use-case
  job definitions focus on evaluations of search systems and examples of state
  sharding. Given the flexibility of the implementation, more jobs are planned,
  such as load... <https://awagen.github.io/kolibri>
- [akka/akka-persistence-r2dbc](https://github.com/akka/akka-persistence-r2dbc):
  R2DBC Plugin for Akka Persistence
  <https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-persistence-r2dbc/current/index.html>
- [endless4s/endless](https://github.com/endless4s/endless): Scala library to
  describe event sourced entities using tagless-final algebras
  <https://endless4s.github.io>
- [scredis/scredis](https://github.com/scredis/scredis): Non-blocking,
  ultra-fast Scala Redis client built on top of Akka IO.
  <https://scredis.github.io/scredis/>
- [hseeberger/akka-http-json](https://github.com/hseeberger/akka-http-json):
  Integrate some of the best JSON libs in Scala with Akka HTTP

### Typelevel

- [tofu-tf/tofu](https://github.com/tofu-tf/tofu): Functional programming
  toolbox <https://docs.tofu.tf>
- [typelevel/cats-tagless](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-tagless): Library
  of utilities for tagless final encoded algebras
  <https://typelevel.org/cats-tagless>
- [higherkindness/droste](https://github.com/higherkindness/droste): recursion
  schemes for cats; to iterate is human, to recurse, divine
- [typelevel/kittens](https://github.com/typelevel/kittens): Automatic type
  class derivation for Cats
- [typelevel/cats-effect-cps](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-effect-cps): An
  incubator project for async/await syntax support for Cats Effect
- [typelevel/log4cats](https://github.com/typelevel/log4cats): Logging Tools For
  Interaction with cats-effect <https://typelevel.org/log4cats/>
- 🌟 [LEGO/woof](https://github.com/LEGO/woof): A pure Scala 3 logging library
  with no reflection
- [tpolecat/natchez](https://github.com/tpolecat/natchez): functional tracing
  for cats
- [typelevel/otel4s](https://github.com/typelevel/otel4s): An OpenTelemetry
  library for Scala based on Cats-Effect
- 🌟 [trace4cats/trace4cats](https://github.com/trace4cats/trace4cats):
  Distributed app tracing implementation in pure scala using cats-effect
- [bkirwi/decline](https://github.com/bkirwi/decline): A composable command-line
  parser for Scala. <https://ben.kirw.in/decline/>
- [typelevel/toolkit](https://github.com/typelevel/toolkit): Quickstart your
  next app with the Typelevel Toolkit!
- [cb372/cats-retry](https://github.com/cb372/cats-retry): A library for
  retrying actions that can fail. <https://cb372.github.io/cats-retry/>
- [fd4s/fs2-kafka](https://github.com/fd4s/fs2-kafka): Functional Kafka Streams
  for Scala <https://fd4s.github.io/fs2-kafka>
- [typelevel/scalacheck-effect](https://github.com/typelevel/scalacheck-effect):
  Effectful property testing built on ScalaCheck
- [typelevel/cats-effect-testing](https://github.com/typelevel/cats-effect-testing):
  Integration between cats-effect and test frameworks
- [typelevel/munit-cats-effect](https://github.com/typelevel/munit-cats-effect):
  Integration library for MUnit & cats-effect
- [armanbilge/calico](https://github.com/armanbilge/calico): Pure, reactive UI
  library for Scala.js <https://armanbilge.github.io/calico>
- [evolution-gaming/scache](https://github.com/evolution-gaming/scache): Cache
  in Scala with cats-effect
- [mockito/mockito-scala](https://github.com/mockito/mockito-scala): Mockito for
  Scala language <http://mockito.org>
- [http4s/http4s-armeria](https://github.com/http4s/http4s-armeria): Armeria
  backend for http4s

### ZIO

- [ghostdogpr/zio-cheatsheet](https://github.com/ghostdogpr/zio-cheatsheet): ZIO
  Cheat Sheet
- [ghostdogpr/caliban](https://github.com/ghostdogpr/caliban): Functional
  GraphQL library for Scala <https://ghostdogpr.github.io/caliban>
- [devsisters/shardcake](https://github.com/devsisters/shardcake): Sharding and
  location transparency for Scala <https://devsisters.github.io/shardcake>
- [dream11/zio-http](https://github.com/dream11/zio-http): A scala library to
  write Http apps. <https://dream11.github.io/zio-http>
- [tailcallhq/zio-compose](https://github.com/tailcallhq/zio-compose): A Scala
  DSL to write type-safe programs for distributed computing
- [hmemcpy/zio-clippy](https://github.com/hmemcpy/zio-clippy): A Scala compiler
  plugin for better ZIO type mismatch errors.

## Could we make Scala great again?

## for Data Intensive System

- [Kotlin/multik](https://github.com/Kotlin/multik): Multidimensional array
  library for Kotlin. <https://kotlin.github.io/multik/>
- [Kotlin/dataframe](https://github.com/Kotlin/dataframe): Structured data
  processing in Kotlin <https://kotlin.github.io/dataframe/>
- [haifengl/smile](https://github.com/haifengl/smile): Statistical Machine
  Intelligence & Learning Engine <https://haifengl.github.io/>
- [SciProgCentre/kmath](https://github.com/SciProgCentre/kmath): Kotlin
  mathematics extensions library
- [dragonfly-ai/vector](https://github.com/dragonfly-ai/vector): A Scala.js
  Vector and Math library for image processing, scientific/information
  visualization, and game development.
