topics/backend.md, before:

# Backend and Services / Software

## Resources

- [grpc-ecosystem/awesome-grpc](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/awesome-grpc): A curated list of useful resources for gRPC
- [johnlui/PPHC](https://github.com/johnlui/PPHC): 📙《高并发的哲学原理》开源图书
- [Software Engineering Books](https://software-engineering-books.com/): I’ve been a software engineer for over 10 years now, and I’ve successfully passed through all stages of grief. I’m also an avid reader. This page contains my collection of books that have helped me the most throughout my career.
- [qiangmzsx/Software-Engineering-at-Google](https://github.com/qiangmzsx/Software-Engineering-at-Google): 《Software Engineering at Google》的中文翻译版本
- [fusionauth/webauthn.wtf](https://github.com/fusionauth/webauthn.wtf): The webauthn.wtf website <https://webauthn.wtf/>
- [heynickc/awesome-ddd](https://github.com/heynickc/awesome-ddd): A curated list of Domain-Driven Design (DDD), Command Query Responsibility Segregation (CQRS), Event Sourcing, and Event Storming resources
- [smirnov-am/awesome-saas-boilerplates](https://github.com/smirnov-am/awesome-saas-boilerplates): No description, website, or topics provided.
- [isno/theByteBook](https://github.com/isno/theByteBook): ⭐ 出版作品开源。深入讲解内核网络、Kubernetes、ServiceMesh、容器等云原生相关技术。经历实践检验的 DevOps、SRE 指南。如发现错误，谢谢提 issue <https://www.thebyte.com.cn>
- 🌟 [Cactus-proj/A-Philosophy-of-Software-Design-zh](https://github.com/Cactus-proj/A-Philosophy-of-Software-Design-zh): A Philosophy of Software Design 《软件设计的哲学》中文翻译 <https://cactus-proj.github.io/A-Philosophy-of-Software-Design-zh/>
- 🌟 [Go7hic/A-Philosophy-of-Software-Design](https://github.com/Go7hic/A-Philosophy-of-Software-Design): 《软件设计哲学》 <https://go7hic.github.io/A-Philosophy-of-Software-Design/#/>
- [zxyle/PDF-Explained](https://github.com/zxyle/PDF-Explained): 《PDF 解析》 <https://zxyle.github.io/PDF-Explained/>
- [ByteByteGoHq/system-design-101](https://github.com/ByteByteGoHq/system-design-101): Explain complex systems using visuals and simple terms. Help you prepare for system design interviews. <https://blog.bytebytego.com/>
- [Dhravya/cloudflare-saas-stack](https://github.com/Dhravya/cloudflare-saas-stack): Quickly make and deploy full-stack apps with database, auth, styling, storage etc. figured out for you.

## Middleware

- [chiselstrike/chiselstrike](https://github.com/chiselstrike/chiselstrike): ChiselStrike abstracts common backends components like databases and message queues, and let you drive them from a convenient TypeScript business logic layer <https://chiselstrike.com/>
- [cylexVEVO/turso-dashboard](https://github.com/cylexVEVO/turso-dashboard): Simple dashboard for managing your Turso databases.

## low-code / no-code

- [appsmithorg/appsmith](https://github.com/appsmithorg/appsmith): Platform to build admin panels, internal tools, and dashboards. Integrates with 25+ databases and any API. <https://www.appsmith.com>
- 🌟 [appwrite/appwrite](https://github.com/appwrite/appwrite): Your backend, minus the hassle. <https://appwrite.io>
- [gitlab - baserow/baserow](https://gitlab.com/baserow/baserow): Baserow is an open source no-code database and Airtable alternative. Create your own database without technical experience. Our user friendly no-code tool gives you the powers of a developer without leaving your browser.
- [rowyio/rowy](https://github.com/rowyio/rowy): Low-code backend platform. Manage database on spreadsheet-like UI and build cloud functions workflows in JS/TS, all in your browser. <http://rowy.io>
- [ToolJet/ToolJet](https://github.com/ToolJet/ToolJet): Low-code platform for building business applications. Connect to databases, cloud storages, GraphQL, API endpoints, Airtable, Google sheets, OpenAI, etc and build apps using drag and drop application builder. Built using JavaScript/TypeScript. 🚀 <https://tooljet.com>
- [nocodb/nocodb](https://github.com/nocodb/nocodb): 🔥 🔥 🔥 Open Source Airtable Alternative <https://nocodb.com>
- [nocobase/nocobase](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase): NocoBase is a scalability-first, open-source no-code/low-code platform for building business applications and enterprise solutions. <https://www.nocobase.com>
- [teableio/teable](https://github.com/teableio/teable): ✨ The Next Gen Airtable Alternative: No-Code Postgres <https://teable.io>
- [directus/directus](https://github.com/directus/directus): The Modern Data Stack 🐰 — Directus is an instant REST+GraphQL API and intuitive no-code data collaboration app for any SQL database. <https://directus.io>
- [bram2w/baserow](https://github.com/bram2w/baserow): The official repository is hosted on https://gitlab.com/bramw/baserow. Baserow is an open source no-code database tool and Airtable alternative. <https://baserow.io>
- [Budibase/budibase](https://github.com/Budibase/budibase): Low code platform for building business apps and workflows in minutes. Supports PostgreSQL, MySQL, MSSQL, MongoDB, Rest API, Docker, K8s, and more 🚀 <https://budibase.com>
- [Bubble](https://bubble.io/)
- [coollabsio/coolify](https://github.com/coollabsio/coolify): An open-source & self-hostable Heroku / Netlify / Vercel alternative. <https://coolify.io>
- [apitable/apitable](https://github.com/apitable/apitable): 🚀🎉📚 APITable, an API-oriented low-code platform for building collaborative apps and better than all other Airtable open-source alternatives. <https://aitable.ai>
- [dream-num/univer](https://github.com/dream-num/univer): Univer is an open-source alternative to Google Sheets, Slides, and Docs <https://univer.ai>

## CMS

- [wagtail/wagtail](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail): A Django content management system focused on flexibility and user experience <https://wagtail.org>
- [strapi/strapi](https://github.com/strapi/strapi): 🚀 Strapi is the leading open-source headless CMS. It’s 100% JavaScript, fully customizable and developer-first. <https://strapi.io>
  - [VirtusLab-Open-Source/strapi-plugin-navigation](https://github.com/VirtusLab-Open-Source/strapi-plugin-navigation): A plugin for Strapi Headless CMS that provides navigation / menu builder feature with their possibility to control the audience and different output structure renderers like (flat, tree and RFR - ready for handling by Redux First Router)
- [sanity-io/sanity](https://github.com/sanity-io/sanity): Sanity Studio – Rapidly configure content workspaces powered by structured content <https://www.sanity.io>
- [keystonejs/keystone](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone): The most powerful headless CMS for Node.js — built with GraphQL and React <https://keystonejs.com>
- [wundergraph/wundergraph](https://github.com/wundergraph/wundergraph): WunderGraph is a Backend for Frontend Framework to optimize frontend, fullstack and backend developer workflows through API Composition. <https://wundergraph.com>
- [Popsy](https://popsy.co/): No-code website builder for creators
- [payloadcms/payload](https://github.com/payloadcms/payload): The best way to build a modern backend + admin UI. No black magic, all TypeScript, and fully open-source, Payload is both an app framework and a headless CMS. <https://payloadcms.com>
- [WeWeb](https://www.weweb.io/): Build production-grade applications 10x faster
- [keystonejs/keystone](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone): The superpowered headless CMS for Node.js — built with GraphQL and React <https://keystonejs.com>
- [imazen/imageflow](https://github.com/imazen/imageflow): High-performance image manipulation for web servers. Includes imageflow_server, imageflow_tool, and libimageflow <https://docs.imageflow.io/>

## Identifier generator

- snowflake
- [jetpack-io/typeid](https://github.com/jetpack-io/typeid): Type-safe, K-sortable, globally unique identifier inspired by Stripe IDs
- [rs/xid](https://github.com/rs/xid): xid is a globally unique id generator thought for the web

## Localfirst

- [Local-First Web Development](https://localfirstweb.dev/)
- [orbitinghail/sqlsync](https://github.com/orbitinghail/sqlsync): SQLSync is a collaborative offline-first wrapper around SQLite. It is designed to synchronize web application state between users, devices, and the edge. <https://sqlsync.dev>
- [instantdb/instant](https://github.com/instantdb/instant): Instant is a modern Firebase. We make you productive by giving your frontend a real-time database. <https://instantdb.com>

## Realtime and collaboration applications

- [jamsocket/plane](https://github.com/jamsocket/plane): A distributed system for running WebSocket services at scale. <https://plane.dev>
- [electric-sql/electric](https://github.com/electric-sql/electric): Local-first sync layer for web and mobile apps. Build reactive, realtime, local-first apps directly on Postgres. <https://electric-sql.com>

## Interface Definition Language

- [google/gnostic](https://github.com/google/gnostic): A compiler for APIs described by the OpenAPI Specification with plugins for code generation and other API support tasks.
- [microsoft/typespec](https://github.com/microsoft/typespec): TypeSpec is a language for defining cloud service APIs and shapes. TypeSpec is a highly extensible language with primitives that can describe API shapes common among REST, OpenAPI, gRPC, and other protocols.
- [smithy-lang/smithy](https://github.com/smithy-lang/smithy): Smithy is a protocol-agnostic interface definition language and set of tools for generating clients, servers, and documentation for any programming language. <https://smithy.io>
  - [disneystreaming/smithy4s](https://github.com/disneystreaming/smithy4s): https://disneystreaming.github.io/smithy4s/
  - [Baccata/smithy4s-deriving](https://github.com/Baccata/smithy4s-deriving): No description, website, or topics provided.
  - [foldables-io/conductor](https://github.com/foldables-io/conductor): Type-safe middleware for Smithy4s
  - [keynmol/jobby](https://github.com/keynmol/jobby): Smithy4s (Scala + Scala.js) full-stack application <https://blog.indoorvivants.com/tags/series:smithy4s>

## RPC System

- [google/gnxi](https://github.com/google/gnxi): gNXI Tools - gRPC Network Management/Operations Interface Tools

## Serverless

- [faasm/faasm](https://github.com/faasm/faasm): High-performance stateful serverless runtime based on WebAssembly <https://faasm.readthedocs.io>

Commit message:

Add idd, moulin, better-auth

topics/backend.md, after:

# Backend and Services / Software

## Resources

- [grpc-ecosystem/awesome-grpc](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/awesome-grpc): A curated list of useful resources for gRPC
- [johnlui/PPHC](https://github.com/johnlui/PPHC): 📙《高并发的哲学原理》开源图书
- [Software Engineering Books](https://software-engineering-books.com/): I’ve been a software engineer for over 10 years now, and I’ve successfully passed through all stages of grief. I’m also an avid reader. This page contains my collection of books that have helped me the most throughout my career.
- [qiangmzsx/Software-Engineering-at-Google](https://github.com/qiangmzsx/Software-Engineering-at-Google): 《Software Engineering at Google》的中文翻译版本
- [fusionauth/webauthn.wtf](https://github.com/fusionauth/webauthn.wtf): The webauthn.wtf website <https://webauthn.wtf/>
- [heynickc/awesome-ddd](https://github.com/heynickc/awesome-ddd): A curated list of Domain-Driven Design (DDD), Command Query Responsibility Segregation (CQRS), Event Sourcing, and Event Storming resources
- [smirnov-am/awesome-saas-boilerplates](https://github.com/smirnov-am/awesome-saas-boilerplates): No description, website, or topics provided.
- [isno/theByteBook](https://github.com/isno/theByteBook): ⭐ 出版作品开源。深入讲解内核网络、Kubernetes、ServiceMesh、容器等云原生相关技术。经历实践检验的 DevOps、SRE 指南。如发现错误，谢谢提 issue <https://www.thebyte.com.cn>
- 🌟 [Cactus-proj/A-Philosophy-of-Software-Design-zh](https://github.com/Cactus-proj/A-Philosophy-of-Software-Design-zh): A Philosophy of Software Design 《软件设计的哲学》中文翻译 <https://cactus-proj.github.io/A-Philosophy-of-Software-Design-zh/>
- 🌟 [Go7hic/A-Philosophy-of-Software-Design](https://github.com/Go7hic/A-Philosophy-of-Software-Design): 《软件设计哲学》 <https://go7hic.github.io/A-Philosophy-of-Software-Design/#/>
- [zxyle/PDF-Explained](https://github.com/zxyle/PDF-Explained): 《PDF 解析》 <https://zxyle.github.io/PDF-Explained/>
- [ByteByteGoHq/system-design-101](https://github.com/ByteByteGoHq/system-design-101): Explain complex systems using visuals and simple terms. Help you prepare for system design interviews. <https://blog.bytebytego.com/>
- [Dhravya/cloudflare-saas-stack](https://github.com/Dhravya/cloudflare-saas-stack): Quickly make and deploy full-stack apps with database, auth, styling, storage etc. figured out for you.

## Middleware

- [chiselstrike/chiselstrike](https://github.com/chiselstrike/chiselstrike): ChiselStrike abstracts common backends components like databases and message queues, and let you drive them from a convenient TypeScript business logic layer <https://chiselstrike.com/>
- [cylexVEVO/turso-dashboard](https://github.com/cylexVEVO/turso-dashboard): Simple dashboard for managing your Turso databases.

## low-code / no-code

- [appsmithorg/appsmith](https://github.com/appsmithorg/appsmith): Platform to build admin panels, internal tools, and dashboards. Integrates with 25+ databases and any API. <https://www.appsmith.com>
- 🌟 [appwrite/appwrite](https://github.com/appwrite/appwrite): Your backend, minus the hassle. <https://appwrite.io>
- [gitlab - baserow/baserow](https://gitlab.com/baserow/baserow): Baserow is an open source no-code database and Airtable alternative. Create your own database without technical experience. Our user friendly no-code tool gives you the powers of a developer without leaving your browser.
- [rowyio/rowy](https://github.com/rowyio/rowy): Low-code backend platform. Manage database on spreadsheet-like UI and build cloud functions workflows in JS/TS, all in your browser. <http://rowy.io>
- [ToolJet/ToolJet](https://github.com/ToolJet/ToolJet): Low-code platform for building business applications. Connect to databases, cloud storages, GraphQL, API endpoints, Airtable, Google sheets, OpenAI, etc and build apps using drag and drop application builder. Built using JavaScript/TypeScript. 🚀 <https://tooljet.com>
- [nocodb/nocodb](https://github.com/nocodb/nocodb): 🔥 🔥 🔥 Open Source Airtable Alternative <https://nocodb.com>
- [nocobase/nocobase](https://github.com/nocobase/nocobase): NocoBase is a scalability-first, open-source no-code/low-code platform for building business applications and enterprise solutions. <https://www.nocobase.com>
- [teableio/teable](https://github.com/teableio/teable): ✨ The Next Gen Airtable Alternative: No-Code Postgres <https://teable.io>
- [directus/directus](https://github.com/directus/directus): The Modern Data Stack 🐰 — Directus is an instant REST+GraphQL API and intuitive no-code data collaboration app for any SQL database. <https://directus.io>
- [bram2w/baserow](https://github.com/bram2w/baserow): The official repository is hosted on https://gitlab.com/bramw/baserow. Baserow is an open source no-code database tool and Airtable alternative. <https://baserow.io>
- [Budibase/budibase](https://github.com/Budibase/budibase): Low code platform for building business apps and workflows in minutes. Supports PostgreSQL, MySQL, MSSQL, MongoDB, Rest API, Docker, K8s, and more 🚀 <https://budibase.com>
- [Bubble](https://bubble.io/)
- [coollabsio/coolify](https://github.com/coollabsio/coolify): An open-source & self-hostable Heroku / Netlify / Vercel alternative. <https://coolify.io>
- [apitable/apitable](https://github.com/apitable/apitable): 🚀🎉📚 APITable, an API-oriented low-code platform for building collaborative apps and better than all other Airtable open-source alternatives. <https://aitable.ai>
- [dream-num/univer](https://github.com/dream-num/univer): Univer is an open-source alternative to Google Sheets, Slides, and Docs <https://univer.ai>

## Auth

- [better-auth/better-auth](https://github.com/better-auth/better-auth): The most comprehensive authentication library for TypeScript <https://better-auth.com>
- [lucia-auth/lucia](https://github.com/lucia-auth/lucia): Authentication, simple and clean <https://lucia-auth.com>

## CMS

- [wagtail/wagtail](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail): A Django content management system focused on flexibility and user experience <https://wagtail.org>
- [strapi/strapi](https://github.com/strapi/strapi): 🚀 Strapi is the leading open-source headless CMS. It’s 100% JavaScript, fully customizable and developer-first. <https://strapi.io>
  - [VirtusLab-Open-Source/strapi-plugin-navigation](https://github.com/VirtusLab-Open-Source/strapi-plugin-navigation): A plugin for Strapi Headless CMS that provides navigation / menu builder feature with their possibility to control the audience and different output structure renderers like (flat, tree and RFR - ready for handling by Redux First Router)
- [sanity-io/sanity](https://github.com/sanity-io/sanity): Sanity Studio – Rapidly configure content workspaces powered by structured content <https://www.sanity.io>
- [keystonejs/keystone](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone): The most powerful headless CMS for Node.js — built with GraphQL and React <https://keystonejs.com>
- [wundergraph/wundergraph](https://github.com/wundergraph/wundergraph): WunderGraph is a Backend for Frontend Framework to optimize frontend, fullstack and backend developer workflows through API Composition. <https://wundergraph.com>
- [Popsy](https://popsy.co/): No-code website builder for creators
- [payloadcms/payload](https://github.com/payloadcms/payload): The best way to build a modern backend + admin UI. No black magic, all TypeScript, and fully open-source, Payload is both an app framework and a headless CMS. <https://payloadcms.com>
- [WeWeb](https://www.weweb.io/): Build production-grade applications 10x faster
- [keystonejs/keystone](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone): The superpowered headless CMS for Node.js — built with GraphQL and React <https://keystonejs.com>
- [imazen/imageflow](https://github.com/imazen/imageflow): High-performance image manipulation for web servers. Includes imageflow_server, imageflow_tool, and libimageflow <https://docs.imageflow.io/>

## Identifier generator

- snowflake
- [jetpack-io/typeid](https://github.com/jetpack-io/typeid): Type-safe, K-sortable, globally unique identifier inspired by Stripe IDs
- [rs/xid](https://github.com/rs/xid): xid is a globally unique id generator thought for the web

## Localfirst

- [Local-First Web Development](https://localfirstweb.dev/)
- [orbitinghail/sqlsync](https://github.com/orbitinghail/sqlsync): SQLSync is a collaborative offline-first wrapper around SQLite. It is designed to synchronize web application state between users, devices, and the edge. <https://sqlsync.dev>
- [instantdb/instant](https://github.com/instantdb/instant): Instant is a modern Firebase. We make you productive by giving your frontend a real-time database. <https://instantdb.com>

## Realtime and collaboration applications

- [jamsocket/plane](https://github.com/jamsocket/plane): A distributed system for running WebSocket services at scale. <https://plane.dev>
- [electric-sql/electric](https://github.com/electric-sql/electric): Local-first sync layer for web and mobile apps. Build reactive, realtime, local-first apps directly on Postgres. <https://electric-sql.com>

## Interface Definition Language

- [google/gnostic](https://github.com/google/gnostic): A compiler for APIs described by the OpenAPI Specification with plugins for code generation and other API support tasks.
- [microsoft/typespec](https://github.com/microsoft/typespec): TypeSpec is a language for defining cloud service APIs and shapes. TypeSpec is a highly extensible language with primitives that can describe API shapes common among REST, OpenAPI, gRPC, and other protocols.
- [smithy-lang/smithy](https://github.com/smithy-lang/smithy): Smithy is a protocol-agnostic interface definition language and set of tools for generating clients, servers, and documentation for any programming language. <https://smithy.io>
  - [disneystreaming/smithy4s](https://github.com/disneystreaming/smithy4s): https://disneystreaming.github.io/smithy4s/
  - [Baccata/smithy4s-deriving](https://github.com/Baccata/smithy4s-deriving): No description, website, or topics provided.
  - [foldables-io/conductor](https://github.com/foldables-io/conductor): Type-safe middleware for Smithy4s
  - [keynmol/jobby](https://github.com/keynmol/jobby): Smithy4s (Scala + Scala.js) full-stack application <https://blog.indoorvivants.com/tags/series:smithy4s>

## RPC System

- [google/gnxi](https://github.com/google/gnxi): gNXI Tools - gRPC Network Management/Operations Interface Tools

## Serverless

- [faasm/faasm](https://github.com/faasm/faasm): High-performance stateful serverless runtime based on WebAssembly <https://faasm.readthedocs.io>
