topics/cloud.md, before:

# Cloud

## Resources

- [lonegunmanb/introduction-terraform](https://github.com/lonegunmanb/introduction-terraform):
  Introduction to terraform
  <https://lonegunmanb.github.io/introduction-terraform>
- [shuaibiyy/awesome-terraform](https://github.com/shuaibiyy/awesome-terraform):
  Curated list of resources on HashiCorp's Terraform
- [huataihuang/cloud-atlas](https://github.com/huataihuang/cloud-atlas): 云计算
  指南 <https://cloud-atlas.readthedocs.io>
- [veggiemonk/awesome-docker](https://github.com/veggiemonk/awesome-docker): 🐳
  A curated list of Docker resources and projects
  <https://awesome-docker.netlify.app>
- [ramitsurana/awesome-kubernetes](https://github.com/ramitsurana/awesome-kubernetes):
  A curated list for awesome kubernetes sources 🚢🎉
  <https://ramitsurana.github.io/awesome-kubernetes>

## OS

- [unikraft/unikraft](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft): Unikraft is an
  automated system for building specialized OSes known as unikernels. Unikraft
  can be configured to be POSIX-compliant. <http://unikraft.org/>
- 🌟 [canonical/cloud-init](https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init): Official
  upstream for the cloud-init: cloud instance initialization <instance>

## Container

- [ncopa/su-exec](https://github.com/ncopa/su-exec): switch user and group id
  and exec
- [tianon/gosu](https://github.com/tianon/gosu): Simple Go-based
  setuid+setgid+setgroups+exec
- [krallin/tini](https://github.com/krallin/tini): A tiny but valid `init` for
  containers
- [oasislinux/oasis](https://github.com/oasislinux/oasis): a small
  statically-linked linux system
- [containrrr/watchtower](https://github.com/containrrr/watchtower): A process
  for automating Docker container base image updates.
  <https://containrrr.dev/watchtower>
- [kata-containers/kata-containers](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers):
  Kata Containers version 2.x repository. Kata Containers is an open source
  project and community working to build a standard implementation of
  lightweight Virtual Machines (VMs) that feel and perform like containers, but
  provide the workload isolation and security advantages of VMs.
  <https://katacontainers.io/ >
- [railwayapp/nixpacks](https://github.com/railwayapp/nixpacks): App source +
  Nix packages + Docker = Image <https://nixpacks.com>
- [google/gvisor](https://github.com/google/gvisor): Application Kernel for
  Containers <https://gvisor.dev>
- [google/cadvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor): Analyzes resource usage
  and performance characteristics of running containers.
- [GoogleContainerTools/distroless](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/distroless):
  🥑 Language focused docker images, minus the operating system.
- [uber-go/automaxprocs](https://github.com/uber-go/automaxprocs): Automatically
  set GOMAXPROCS to match Linux container CPU quota.
  <https://godoc.org/go.uber.org/automaxprocs>
- [chainguard-images/images](https://github.com/chainguard-images/images):
  Public Chainguard Images <https://chainguard.dev/chainguard-images>
- [containers/conmon](https://github.com/containers/conmon): An OCI container
  runtime monitor.
- [rancher/rancher](https://github.com/rancher/rancher): Complete container
  management platform <http://rancher.com>
- 🌟 [k3s-io/k3s](https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s): Lightweight Kubernetes
  <https://k3s.io>
- [orsinium-labs/docked](https://github.com/orsinium-labs/docked): A friendly
  and safe alternative to Dockefile. Write Docker images using the full power of
  Python. <https://docked.orsinium.dev>
- [jesseduffield/lazydocker](https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazydocker): The
  lazier way to manage everything docker

## Routing

- [traefik/traefik](https://github.com/traefik/traefik): The Cloud Native
  Application Proxy
- [apache/trafficserver](https://github.com/apache/trafficserver): Apache
  Traffic Server™ is a fast, scalable and extensible HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2
  compliant caching proxy server. <https://trafficserver.apache.org>
- [NginxProxyManager/nginx-proxy-manager](https://github.com/NginxProxyManager/nginx-proxy-manager):
  Docker container for managing Nginx proxy hosts with a simple, powerful
  interface <https://nginxproxymanager.com>
- 🌟
  [digitalocean/nginxconfig.io](https://github.com/digitalocean/nginxconfig.io):
  ⚙️ NGINX config generator on steroids 💉 <https://do.co/nginxconfig>
- [denji/nginx-tuning](https://github.com/denji/nginx-tuning): NGINX tuning for
  best performance <https://git.io/vSvsq>
- [facebookincubator/katran](https://github.com/facebookincubator/katran): A
  high performance layer 4 load balancer
- [projectcontour/contour](https://github.com/projectcontour/contour): Contour
  is a Kubernetes ingress controller using Envoy proxy.
  <https://projectcontour.io>

## Cloud native

- [cloudflare/miniflare](https://github.com/cloudflare/miniflare): 🔥
  Fully-local simulator for Cloudflare Workers
- [drivendataorg/cloudpathlib](https://github.com/drivendataorg/cloudpathlib):
  Python pathlib-style classes for cloud storage services such as Amazon S3,
  Azure Blob Storage, and Google Cloud Storage.
  <https://cloudpathlib.drivendata.org>
- [zappa/Zappa](https://github.com/zappa/Zappa): Serverless Python
- [lagonapp/lagon](https://github.com/lagonapp/lagon): Deploy Serverless
  Functions at the Edge. Current status: Alpha <https://lagon.app/>
- [ServiceWeaver/weaver](https://github.com/ServiceWeaver/weaver): Programming
  framework for writing and deploying cloud applications.
  <https://serviceweaver.dev>
- [mrsked/mrsk](https://github.com/mrsked/mrsk): Deploy web apps anywhere.
  <https://mrsk.dev/>
- [s3fs-fuse/s3fs-fuse](https://github.com/s3fs-fuse/s3fs-fuse): FUSE-based file
  system backed by Amazon S3
- [buildpacks/pack](https://github.com/buildpacks/pack): CLI for building apps
  using Cloud Native Buildpacks <https://buildpacks.io>
- [pivotal/kpack](https://github.com/pivotal/kpack): Kubernetes Native Container
  Build Service

## K8S

- [lensapp/lens](https://github.com/lensapp/lens): Lens - The way the world runs
  Kubernetes <https://k8slens.dev>
- [rootsongjc/kubernetes-handbook](https://github.com/rootsongjc/kubernetes-handbook):
  Kubernetes 中文指南/云原生应用架构实战手册
  <https://jimmysong.io/kubernetes-handbook>
- [derailed/k9s](https://github.com/derailed/k9s): 🐶 Kubernetes CLI To Manage
  Your Clusters In Style! <https://k9scli.io/>
- [kubernetes/autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler): Autoscaling
  components for Kubernetes
- [kumahq/kuma](https://github.com/kumahq/kuma): 🐻 The multi-zone service mesh
  for containers, Kubernetes and VMs. Built with Envoy. CNCF Sandbox Project.
  <https://kuma.io/install>
- [karmada-io/karmada](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada): Open,
  Multi-Cloud, Multi-Cluster Kubernetes Orchestration <https://karmada.io>
- [pixie-io/pixie](https://github.com/pixie-io/pixie): Instant Kubernetes-Native
  Application Observability <https://px.dev>
- [kr8s-org/kr8s](https://github.com/kr8s-org/kr8s): A simple, extensible Python
  client library for Kubernetes that feels familiar for folks who already know
  how to use kubectl <https://kr8s.org>

## Hashicorp

- [hashicorp/nomad-autoscaler](https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad-autoscaler):
  Nomad Autoscaler brings autoscaling to your Nomad workloads.

## Infrastructure less

- [Fly](https://fly.io): Deploy app servers close to your users
- [Railway](https://railway.app):Render is a unified cloud to build and run all
  your apps and websites with free TLS certificates, a global CDN, DDoS
  protection, private networks, and auto deploys from Git.
- [Modal](https://modal.com/): End-to-end cloud compute. Model inference, batch
  jobs, task queues, web apps and more. All without your own infrastructure.
- [Render](https://render.com): Render is a unified cloud to build and run all
  your apps and websites with free TLS certificates, a global CDN, DDoS
  protection, private networks, and auto deploys from Git.

## Could Foundry

- [one2nc/cloudlens](https://github.com/one2nc/cloudlens): k9s like CLI for AWS
  <https://one2n.gitbook.io/docs/>

## Infrastructure as Code

### Framework

- [pulumi/pulumi](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi): Pulumi - Universal
  Infrastructure as Code. Your Cloud, Your Language, Your Way 🚀
  <https://www.pulumi.com>
- [crossplane/crossplane](https://github.com/crossplane/crossplane): Cloud
  Native Control Planes <https://crossplane.io/>
- [Fizzadar/pyinfra](https://github.com/Fizzadar/pyinfra): pyinfra automates
  infrastructure super fast at massive scale. It can be used for ad-hoc command
  execution, service deployment, configuration management and more.
  <https://pyinfra.com>

### Services

- [Argonaut](https://www.argonaut.dev/): End to end deployments to AWS and GCP
  in minutes - Collaborate on software infra with a fully managed Kubernetes
  PaaS, automated CI, and terraform with prebuilt AWS and GCP modules.
- [Gruntwork.io](https://www.gruntwork.io/): Your entire infrastructure. Defined
  as code. In about a day. We get you running on AWS with Docker and you get
  100% of the code.

### Utils

- [servian/aws-auto-cleanup](https://github.com/servian/aws-auto-cleanup):
  Programmatically delete AWS resources based on an allowlist and time to live
  (TTL) settings
- [localstack/localstack](https://github.com/localstack/localstack): 💻 A fully
  functional local AWS cloud stack. Develop and test your cloud & Serverless
  apps offline!
- [gruntwork-io/terragrunt](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt):
  Terragrunt is a thin wrapper for Terraform that provides extra tools for
  working with multiple Terraform modules.
- [snyk/driftctl](https://github.com/snyk/driftctl): Detect, track and alert on
  infrastructure drift <https://driftctl.com>
- [someengineering/resoto](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto): Resoto
  creates an inventory of your cloud, provides deep visibility, and reacts to
  changes in your infrastructure. ⚡️ <https://resoto.com>
- [camptocamp/terraboard](https://github.com/camptocamp/terraboard): 🌍 📋 A web
  dashboard to inspect Terraform States <https://terraboard.io>
- [cycloidio/terracognita](https://github.com/cycloidio/terracognita): Reads
  from existing public and private cloud providers (reverse Terraform) and
  generates your infrastructure as code on Terraform configuration
- [aquasecurity/tfsec](https://github.com/aquasecurity/tfsec): Security scanner
  for your Terraform code <https://aquasecurity.github.io/tfsec>
- [picatz/terraform-google-nomad](https://github.com/picatz/terraform-google-nomad):
  📗 Terraform Module for Nomad clusters with Consul on GCP
- [turbot/steampipe](https://github.com/turbot/steampipe): Use SQL to instantly
  query your cloud services (AWS, Azure, GCP and more). Open source CLI. No DB
  required. <https://steampipe.io>
- [klothoplatform/klotho](https://github.com/klothoplatform/klotho): Klotho - a
  CLI tool that transforms plain code into cloud native code <https://klo.dev>
- [finos/compliant-financial-infrastructure](https://github.com/finos/compliant-financial-infrastructure):
  Compliant Financial Infrastructure accelerates the development, deployment and
  adoption of services provided for AWS, Azure and Google in a way that meets
  existing regulatory and internal security controls.

### Pricing

- [bytebase/dbcost](https://github.com/bytebase/dbcost): The simple pricing
  calculator and comparison tool for the cloud databases.
  <https://www.dbcost.com>
- [uselotus/lotus](https://github.com/uselotus/lotus): Open Source Pricing &
  Packaging Infrastructure <https://www.uselotus.io>
- [juspay/hyperswitch](https://github.com/juspay/hyperswitch): An Open Source
  Financial Switch to make Payments fast, reliable and affordable

### Tech Stack

- [internetarchive/hind](https://github.com/internetarchive/hind):
  Hashistack-IN-Docker (single container with nomad + consul + caddy)
- [theztd/startup-infra-docker](https://github.com/theztd/startup-infra-docker):
  Easy managable infrastructure for small devops teams or startups (based on
  ansible, nomadproject, docker, prometheus)

## Utils

- [skyplane-project/skyplane](https://github.com/skyplane-project/skyplane): 🔥
  Blazing fast bulk data transfers between any cloud 🔥 <https://skyplane.org>
- 🌟 [octodns/octodns](https://github.com/octodns/octodns): Tools for managing
  DNS across multiple providers
- [libdns/libdns](https://github.com/libdns/libdns): Core interfaces for
  universal DNS record manipulation across providers
- [go-acme/lego](https://github.com/go-acme/lego): Let's Encrypt/ACME client and
  library written in Go <https://go-acme.github.io/lego/>
- [rclone/rclone](https://github.com/rclone/rclone): "rsync for cloud storage" -
  Google Drive, S3, Dropbox, Backblaze B2, One Drive, Swift, Hubic, Wasabi,
  Google Cloud Storage, Yandex Files <https://rclone.org>

## Serverless

- [robertcepa/toucan-js](https://github.com/robertcepa/toucan-js): Cloudflare
  Workers client for Sentry
- [Logflare/logflare](https://github.com/Logflare/logflare): Never get surprised
  by a logging bill again. Centralized structured logging for Cloudflare,
  Vercel, Elixir and Javascript. <https://logflare.app>
- [cloudflare/workers-rs](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-rs): Write
  Cloudflare Workers in 100% Rust via WebAssembly

Commit message:

Add indexmap, mmap-sync and gcr-cleaner

topics/cloud.md, after:

# Cloud

## Resources

- [lonegunmanb/introduction-terraform](https://github.com/lonegunmanb/introduction-terraform):
  Introduction to terraform
  <https://lonegunmanb.github.io/introduction-terraform>
- [shuaibiyy/awesome-terraform](https://github.com/shuaibiyy/awesome-terraform):
  Curated list of resources on HashiCorp's Terraform
- [huataihuang/cloud-atlas](https://github.com/huataihuang/cloud-atlas): 云计算
  指南 <https://cloud-atlas.readthedocs.io>
- [veggiemonk/awesome-docker](https://github.com/veggiemonk/awesome-docker): 🐳
  A curated list of Docker resources and projects
  <https://awesome-docker.netlify.app>
- [ramitsurana/awesome-kubernetes](https://github.com/ramitsurana/awesome-kubernetes):
  A curated list for awesome kubernetes sources 🚢🎉
  <https://ramitsurana.github.io/awesome-kubernetes>
- [yeasy/docker_practice](https://github.com/yeasy/docker_practice): Learn and
  understand Docker&Container technologies, with real DevOps practice! (in
  Chinese)

## OS

- [unikraft/unikraft](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft): Unikraft is an
  automated system for building specialized OSes known as unikernels. Unikraft
  can be configured to be POSIX-compliant. <http://unikraft.org/>
- 🌟 [canonical/cloud-init](https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init): Official
  upstream for the cloud-init: cloud instance initialization <instance>

## Container

- [ncopa/su-exec](https://github.com/ncopa/su-exec): switch user and group id
  and exec
- [tianon/gosu](https://github.com/tianon/gosu): Simple Go-based
  setuid+setgid+setgroups+exec
- [krallin/tini](https://github.com/krallin/tini): A tiny but valid `init` for
  containers
- [oasislinux/oasis](https://github.com/oasislinux/oasis): a small
  statically-linked linux system
- [containrrr/watchtower](https://github.com/containrrr/watchtower): A process
  for automating Docker container base image updates.
  <https://containrrr.dev/watchtower>
- [kata-containers/kata-containers](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers):
  Kata Containers version 2.x repository. Kata Containers is an open source
  project and community working to build a standard implementation of
  lightweight Virtual Machines (VMs) that feel and perform like containers, but
  provide the workload isolation and security advantages of VMs.
  <https://katacontainers.io/ >
- [railwayapp/nixpacks](https://github.com/railwayapp/nixpacks): App source +
  Nix packages + Docker = Image <https://nixpacks.com>
- [google/gvisor](https://github.com/google/gvisor): Application Kernel for
  Containers <https://gvisor.dev>
- [google/cadvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor): Analyzes resource usage
  and performance characteristics of running containers.
- [GoogleContainerTools/distroless](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/distroless):
  🥑 Language focused docker images, minus the operating system.
- [uber-go/automaxprocs](https://github.com/uber-go/automaxprocs): Automatically
  set GOMAXPROCS to match Linux container CPU quota.
  <https://godoc.org/go.uber.org/automaxprocs>
- [chainguard-images/images](https://github.com/chainguard-images/images):
  Public Chainguard Images <https://chainguard.dev/chainguard-images>
- [containers/conmon](https://github.com/containers/conmon): An OCI container
  runtime monitor.
- [rancher/rancher](https://github.com/rancher/rancher): Complete container
  management platform <http://rancher.com>
- 🌟 [k3s-io/k3s](https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s): Lightweight Kubernetes
  <https://k3s.io>
- [orsinium-labs/docked](https://github.com/orsinium-labs/docked): A friendly
  and safe alternative to Dockefile. Write Docker images using the full power of
  Python. <https://docked.orsinium.dev>
- [jesseduffield/lazydocker](https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazydocker): The
  lazier way to manage everything docker
- [GoogleCloudPlatform/gcr-cleaner](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/gcr-cleaner):
  Delete untagged image refs in Google Container Registry or Artifact Registry

## Routing

- [traefik/traefik](https://github.com/traefik/traefik): The Cloud Native
  Application Proxy
- [apache/trafficserver](https://github.com/apache/trafficserver): Apache
  Traffic Server™ is a fast, scalable and extensible HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2
  compliant caching proxy server. <https://trafficserver.apache.org>
- [NginxProxyManager/nginx-proxy-manager](https://github.com/NginxProxyManager/nginx-proxy-manager):
  Docker container for managing Nginx proxy hosts with a simple, powerful
  interface <https://nginxproxymanager.com>
- 🌟
  [digitalocean/nginxconfig.io](https://github.com/digitalocean/nginxconfig.io):
  ⚙️ NGINX config generator on steroids 💉 <https://do.co/nginxconfig>
- [denji/nginx-tuning](https://github.com/denji/nginx-tuning): NGINX tuning for
  best performance <https://git.io/vSvsq>
- [facebookincubator/katran](https://github.com/facebookincubator/katran): A
  high performance layer 4 load balancer
- [projectcontour/contour](https://github.com/projectcontour/contour): Contour
  is a Kubernetes ingress controller using Envoy proxy.
  <https://projectcontour.io>

## Cloud native

- [cloudflare/miniflare](https://github.com/cloudflare/miniflare): 🔥
  Fully-local simulator for Cloudflare Workers
- [drivendataorg/cloudpathlib](https://github.com/drivendataorg/cloudpathlib):
  Python pathlib-style classes for cloud storage services such as Amazon S3,
  Azure Blob Storage, and Google Cloud Storage.
  <https://cloudpathlib.drivendata.org>
- [zappa/Zappa](https://github.com/zappa/Zappa): Serverless Python
- [lagonapp/lagon](https://github.com/lagonapp/lagon): Deploy Serverless
  Functions at the Edge. Current status: Alpha <https://lagon.app/>
- [ServiceWeaver/weaver](https://github.com/ServiceWeaver/weaver): Programming
  framework for writing and deploying cloud applications.
  <https://serviceweaver.dev>
- [mrsked/mrsk](https://github.com/mrsked/mrsk): Deploy web apps anywhere.
  <https://mrsk.dev/>
- [s3fs-fuse/s3fs-fuse](https://github.com/s3fs-fuse/s3fs-fuse): FUSE-based file
  system backed by Amazon S3
- [buildpacks/pack](https://github.com/buildpacks/pack): CLI for building apps
  using Cloud Native Buildpacks <https://buildpacks.io>
- [pivotal/kpack](https://github.com/pivotal/kpack): Kubernetes Native Container
  Build Service

## K8S

- [lensapp/lens](https://github.com/lensapp/lens): Lens - The way the world runs
  Kubernetes <https://k8slens.dev>
- [rootsongjc/kubernetes-handbook](https://github.com/rootsongjc/kubernetes-handbook):
  Kubernetes 中文指南/云原生应用架构实战手册
  <https://jimmysong.io/kubernetes-handbook>
- [derailed/k9s](https://github.com/derailed/k9s): 🐶 Kubernetes CLI To Manage
  Your Clusters In Style! <https://k9scli.io/>
- [kubernetes/autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler): Autoscaling
  components for Kubernetes
- [kumahq/kuma](https://github.com/kumahq/kuma): 🐻 The multi-zone service mesh
  for containers, Kubernetes and VMs. Built with Envoy. CNCF Sandbox Project.
  <https://kuma.io/install>
- [karmada-io/karmada](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada): Open,
  Multi-Cloud, Multi-Cluster Kubernetes Orchestration <https://karmada.io>
- [pixie-io/pixie](https://github.com/pixie-io/pixie): Instant Kubernetes-Native
  Application Observability <https://px.dev>
- [kr8s-org/kr8s](https://github.com/kr8s-org/kr8s): A simple, extensible Python
  client library for Kubernetes that feels familiar for folks who already know
  how to use kubectl <https://kr8s.org>

## Hashicorp

- [hashicorp/nomad-autoscaler](https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad-autoscaler):
  Nomad Autoscaler brings autoscaling to your Nomad workloads.

## Infrastructure less

- [Fly](https://fly.io): Deploy app servers close to your users
- [Railway](https://railway.app):Render is a unified cloud to build and run all
  your apps and websites with free TLS certificates, a global CDN, DDoS
  protection, private networks, and auto deploys from Git.
- [Modal](https://modal.com/): End-to-end cloud compute. Model inference, batch
  jobs, task queues, web apps and more. All without your own infrastructure.
- [Render](https://render.com): Render is a unified cloud to build and run all
  your apps and websites with free TLS certificates, a global CDN, DDoS
  protection, private networks, and auto deploys from Git.

## Could Foundry

- [one2nc/cloudlens](https://github.com/one2nc/cloudlens): k9s like CLI for AWS
  <https://one2n.gitbook.io/docs/>

## Infrastructure as Code

### Framework

- [pulumi/pulumi](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi): Pulumi - Universal
  Infrastructure as Code. Your Cloud, Your Language, Your Way 🚀
  <https://www.pulumi.com>
- [crossplane/crossplane](https://github.com/crossplane/crossplane): Cloud
  Native Control Planes <https://crossplane.io/>
- [Fizzadar/pyinfra](https://github.com/Fizzadar/pyinfra): pyinfra automates
  infrastructure super fast at massive scale. It can be used for ad-hoc command
  execution, service deployment, configuration management and more.
  <https://pyinfra.com>

### Services

- [Argonaut](https://www.argonaut.dev/): End to end deployments to AWS and GCP
  in minutes - Collaborate on software infra with a fully managed Kubernetes
  PaaS, automated CI, and terraform with prebuilt AWS and GCP modules.
- [Gruntwork.io](https://www.gruntwork.io/): Your entire infrastructure. Defined
  as code. In about a day. We get you running on AWS with Docker and you get
  100% of the code.

### Utils

- [servian/aws-auto-cleanup](https://github.com/servian/aws-auto-cleanup):
  Programmatically delete AWS resources based on an allowlist and time to live
  (TTL) settings
- [localstack/localstack](https://github.com/localstack/localstack): 💻 A fully
  functional local AWS cloud stack. Develop and test your cloud & Serverless
  apps offline!
- [gruntwork-io/terragrunt](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terragrunt):
  Terragrunt is a thin wrapper for Terraform that provides extra tools for
  working with multiple Terraform modules.
- [snyk/driftctl](https://github.com/snyk/driftctl): Detect, track and alert on
  infrastructure drift <https://driftctl.com>
- [someengineering/resoto](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto): Resoto
  creates an inventory of your cloud, provides deep visibility, and reacts to
  changes in your infrastructure. ⚡️ <https://resoto.com>
- [camptocamp/terraboard](https://github.com/camptocamp/terraboard): 🌍 📋 A web
  dashboard to inspect Terraform States <https://terraboard.io>
- [cycloidio/terracognita](https://github.com/cycloidio/terracognita): Reads
  from existing public and private cloud providers (reverse Terraform) and
  generates your infrastructure as code on Terraform configuration
- [aquasecurity/tfsec](https://github.com/aquasecurity/tfsec): Security scanner
  for your Terraform code <https://aquasecurity.github.io/tfsec>
- [picatz/terraform-google-nomad](https://github.com/picatz/terraform-google-nomad):
  📗 Terraform Module for Nomad clusters with Consul on GCP
- [turbot/steampipe](https://github.com/turbot/steampipe): Use SQL to instantly
  query your cloud services (AWS, Azure, GCP and more). Open source CLI. No DB
  required. <https://steampipe.io>
- [klothoplatform/klotho](https://github.com/klothoplatform/klotho): Klotho - a
  CLI tool that transforms plain code into cloud native code <https://klo.dev>
- [finos/compliant-financial-infrastructure](https://github.com/finos/compliant-financial-infrastructure):
  Compliant Financial Infrastructure accelerates the development, deployment and
  adoption of services provided for AWS, Azure and Google in a way that meets
  existing regulatory and internal security controls.

### Pricing

- [bytebase/dbcost](https://github.com/bytebase/dbcost): The simple pricing
  calculator and comparison tool for the cloud databases.
  <https://www.dbcost.com>
- [uselotus/lotus](https://github.com/uselotus/lotus): Open Source Pricing &
  Packaging Infrastructure <https://www.uselotus.io>
- [juspay/hyperswitch](https://github.com/juspay/hyperswitch): An Open Source
  Financial Switch to make Payments fast, reliable and affordable

### Tech Stack

- [internetarchive/hind](https://github.com/internetarchive/hind):
  Hashistack-IN-Docker (single container with nomad + consul + caddy)
- [theztd/startup-infra-docker](https://github.com/theztd/startup-infra-docker):
  Easy managable infrastructure for small devops teams or startups (based on
  ansible, nomadproject, docker, prometheus)

## Utils

- [skyplane-project/skyplane](https://github.com/skyplane-project/skyplane): 🔥
  Blazing fast bulk data transfers between any cloud 🔥 <https://skyplane.org>
- 🌟 [octodns/octodns](https://github.com/octodns/octodns): Tools for managing
  DNS across multiple providers
- [libdns/libdns](https://github.com/libdns/libdns): Core interfaces for
  universal DNS record manipulation across providers
- [go-acme/lego](https://github.com/go-acme/lego): Let's Encrypt/ACME client and
  library written in Go <https://go-acme.github.io/lego/>
- [rclone/rclone](https://github.com/rclone/rclone): "rsync for cloud storage" -
  Google Drive, S3, Dropbox, Backblaze B2, One Drive, Swift, Hubic, Wasabi,
  Google Cloud Storage, Yandex Files <https://rclone.org>

## Serverless

- [robertcepa/toucan-js](https://github.com/robertcepa/toucan-js): Cloudflare
  Workers client for Sentry
- [Logflare/logflare](https://github.com/Logflare/logflare): Never get surprised
  by a logging bill again. Centralized structured logging for Cloudflare,
  Vercel, Elixir and Javascript. <https://logflare.app>
- [cloudflare/workers-rs](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-rs): Write
  Cloudflare Workers in 100% Rust via WebAssembly
