topics/llm.md, before:

# About LLM

## Framework

### Agents / Chains / Composability

- [langchain-ai/langchain](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain): ⚡ Building applications with LLMs through composability ⚡ <https://python.langchain.com/>
  - [kyrolabs/awesome-langchain](https://github.com/kyrolabs/awesome-langchain): 😎 Awesome list of tools and projects with the awesome LangChain framework
- [logspace-ai/langflow](https://github.com/logspace-ai/langflow): ⛓️ LangFlow is a UI for LangChain, designed with react-flow to provide an effortless way to experiment and prototype flows.
- [langgenius/dify](https://github.com/langgenius/dify): One API for plugins and datasets, one interface for prompt engineering and visual operation, all for creating powerful AI applications. <https://dify.ai>

- [run-llama/llama_index](https://github.com/run-llama/llama_index): LlamaIndex (formerly GPT Index) is a data framework for your LLM applications <https://docs.llamaindex.ai>
- [pathwaycom/llm-app](https://github.com/pathwaycom/llm-app): LLM App is a production framework for building and serving AI applications and LLM-enabled real-time data pipelines. <https://pathway.com/developers/showcases/llm-app-pathway/>
- [safevideo/autollm](https://github.com/safevideo/autollm): Ship RAG based LLM web apps in seconds.
- [lastmile-ai/aiconfig](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig): aiconfig -- config-driven, source control friendly AI application development <https://aiconfig.lastmileai.dev>

- [microsoft/semantic-kernel](https://github.com/microsoft/semantic-kernel): Integrate cutting-edge LLM technology quickly and easily into your apps <https://aka.ms/semantic-kernel>
  - [microsoft/kernel-memory](https://github.com/microsoft/kernel-memory): Index and query any data using LLM and natural language, tracking sources and showing citations.
  - [kinfey/SemanticKernelCookBook](https://github.com/kinfey/SemanticKernelCookBook): Semantic Kernel's cook book
- [microsoft/promptflow](https://github.com/microsoft/promptflow): Build high-quality LLM apps - from prototyping, testing to production deployment and monitoring. <https://microsoft.github.io/promptflow/>
- [microsoft/guidance](https://github.com/microsoft/guidance): A guidance language for controlling large language models.
- [microsoft/JARVIS](https://github.com/microsoft/JARVIS): JARVIS, a system to connect LLMs with ML community
- [microsoft/TypeChat](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeChat): TypeChat is a library that makes it easy to build natural language interfaces using types. <https://microsoft.github.io/TypeChat/>
- [microsoft/lida](https://github.com/microsoft/lida): Automatic Generation of Visualizations and Infographics using Large Language Models <https://microsoft.github.io/lida/>
- [microsoft/CodeT](https://github.com/microsoft/CodeT): This repository contains projects that aims to equip large-scale pretrained language models with better programming and reasoning skills. These projects are presented by Microsoft Research Asia and Microsoft Azure AI.
- [microsoft/azurechatgpt](https://github.com/microsoft/azurechatgpt): 🤖 Azure ChatGPT: Private & secure ChatGPT for internal enterprise use 💼
- [Azure/kaito](https://github.com/Azure/kaito): Kubernetes AI Toolchain Operator

- [kyegomez/tree-of-thoughts](https://github.com/kyegomez/tree-of-thoughts): Plug in and Play Implementation of Tree of Thoughts: Deliberate Problem Solving with Large Language Models that Elevates Model Reasoning by atleast 70% <https://discord.gg/qUtxnK2NMf>
- [a16z-infra/cog-llama-template](https://github.com/a16z-infra/cog-llama-template): LLaMA Cog template

- [TransformerOptimus/SuperAGI](https://github.com/TransformerOptimus/SuperAGI): <⚡️> SuperAGI - A dev-first open source autonomous AI agent framework. Enabling developers to build, manage & run useful autonomous agents quickly and reliably. <https://superagi.com/>
- [AntonOsika/gpt-engineer](https://github.com/AntonOsika/gpt-engineer): Specify what you want it to build, the AI asks for clarification, and then builds it.
- ❔ [Xpitfire/symbolicai](https://github.com/Xpitfire/symbolicai): Compositional Differentiable Programming Library
- 📝 [1rgs/jsonformer](https://github.com/1rgs/jsonformer): A Bulletproof Way to Generate Structured JSON from Language Models
- [piercefreeman/gpt-json](https://github.com/piercefreeman/gpt-json): Structured and typehinted GPT responses in Python
- [noamgat/lm-format-enforcer](https://github.com/noamgat/lm-format-enforcer): Enforce the output format (JSON Schema, Regex etc) of a language model
- [ThousandBirdsInc/chidori](https://github.com/ThousandBirdsInc/chidori): A reactive runtime for building durable AI agents <https://docs.thousandbirds.ai>

### Tools

- [Helicone/helicone](https://github.com/Helicone/helicone): Helicone is an open-source observability platform for GPT-3 users. Companies save on their OpenAI bills and identify application issues by monitoring their usage, latency, and costs on Helicone. <https://www.helicone.ai/>
- [togethercomputer/OpenChatKit](https://github.com/togethercomputer/OpenChatKit): OpenChatKit provides a powerful, open-source base to create both specialized and general purpose chatbots for various applications. The kit includes an instruction-tuned language models, a moderation model, and an extensible retrieval system for including up-to-date responses from custom repositories.
- [zilliztech/GPTCache](https://github.com/zilliztech/GPTCache): GPTCache is a library for creating semantic cache to store responses from LLM queries. <https://gptcache.readthedocs.io>
- [mirrors2/opencatd-open](https://github.com/mirrors2/opencatd-open): opencatd-open 是 OpenCat 团队版的开源实现 <https://opencatd.zeabur.app>
- [go-skynet/LocalAI](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI): 🤖 Self-hosted, community-driven, local OpenAI-compatible API. Drop-in replacement for OpenAI running LLMs on consumer-grade hardware. Free Open Source OpenAI alternative. No GPU required. LocalAI is an API to run ggml compatible models: llama, gpt4all, rwkv, whisper, vicuna, koala, gpt4all-j, cerebras, falcon, dolly, starcoder, and many other <https://localai.io>
- [iryna-kondr/scikit-llm](https://github.com/iryna-kondr/scikit-llm): Seamlessly integrate powerful language models like ChatGPT into scikit-learn for enhanced text analysis tasks.
- [ShishirPatil/gorilla](https://github.com/ShishirPatil/gorilla): Gorilla: An API store for LLMs <https://gorilla.cs.berkeley.edu/>
- 🌟 [r2d4/rellm](https://github.com/r2d4/rellm): Exact structure out of any language model completion.
- [smpanaro/more-ane-transformers](https://github.com/smpanaro/more-ane-transformers): Run transformers (incl. LLMs) on the Apple Neural Engine.

## Model

### OpenAI GPT

- [openai/openai-cookbook](https://github.com/openai/openai-cookbook): Examples and guides for using the OpenAI API
- [pagebrain/lexeme](https://github.com/pagebrain/lexeme): Lexeme - Open source ChatGPT Text Editor <https://pagebrain.ai/lexeme/>
- [openai/chatgpt-retrieval-plugin](https://github.com/openai/chatgpt-retrieval-plugin): The ChatGPT Retrieval Plugin repository provides a flexible solution for semantic search and retrieval of personal or organizational documents using natural language queries.
- [openai/weak-to-strong](https://github.com/openai/weak-to-strong): No description, website, or topics provided.

### Llama 2

- [Llama 2: Open Foundation and Fine-Tuned Chat Models](https://ai.meta.com/research/publications/llama-2-open-foundation-and-fine-tuned-chat-models/)
  - [Responsible Use Guide: your resource for building responsibly](https://ai.meta.com/llama/responsible-use-guide/)
- [facebookresearch/llama](https://github.com/facebookresearch/llama): Inference code for LLaMA models
- [facebookresearch/llama-recipes](https://github.com/facebookresearch/llama-recipes): Examples and recipes for Llama 2 model
- [ggerganov/llama.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp): Port of Facebook's LLaMA model in C/C++
- [karpathy/llama2.c](https://github.com/karpathy/llama2.c): Inference Llama 2 in one file of pure C
- [ayaka14732/llama-2-jax](https://github.com/ayaka14732/llama-2-jax): JAX implementation of the Llama 2 model
- [tairov/llama2.mojo](https://github.com/tairov/llama2.mojo): Inference Llama 2 in one file of pure 🔥
- [jrudolph/llama2.scala](https://github.com/jrudolph/llama2.scala): Inference Llama 2 in one file of hideous Scala (A port of llama2.c from Andrej Karpathy)
- [openlm-research/open_llama](https://github.com/openlm-research/open_llama): OpenLLaMA, a permissively licensed open source reproduction of Meta AI’s LLaMA 7B trained on the RedPajama dataset [facebookresearch/PurpleLlama](https://github.com/facebookresearch/PurpleLlama): Set of tools to assess and improve LLM security.

### Mistral AI

- [mistralai/mistral-src](https://github.com/mistralai/mistral-src): Reference implementation of Mistral AI 7B v0.1 model. <https://mistral.ai/>
- [dvmazur/mixtral-offloading](https://github.com/dvmazur/mixtral-offloading): Run Mixtral-8x7B models in Colab or consumer desktops

### Multi Modal

- [haotian-liu/LLaVA](https://github.com/haotian-liu/LLaVA): [NeurIPS'23 Oral] Visual Instruction Tuning: LLaVA (Large Language-and-Vision Assistant) built towards GPT-4V level capabilities. <https://llava.hliu.cc>
- [apple/ml-ferret](https://github.com/apple/ml-ferret): An End-to-End MLLM that Accept Any-Form Referring and Ground Anything in Response.

### Others

- [LLM Collection](https://www.promptingguide.ai/models/collection): This section consists of a collection and summary of notable and foundational LLMs.
- [Hannibal046/Awesome-LLM](https://github.com/Hannibal046/Awesome-LLM): Awesome-LLM: a curated list of Large Language Model
- [lyogavin/Anima](https://github.com/lyogavin/Anima): 33B Chinese LLM, DPO QLORA, 100K context, AirLLM 70B inference with single 4GB GPU
- [bigcode-project/starcoder](https://github.com/bigcode-project/starcoder): Home of StarCoder: fine-tuning & inference!
- [declare-lab/flan-alpaca](https://github.com/declare-lab/flan-alpaca): This repository contains code for extending the Stanford Alpaca synthetic instruction tuning to existing instruction-tuned models such as Flan-T5.
- [chancefocus/PIXIU](https://github.com/chancefocus/PIXIU): This repository introduces PIXIU, an open-source resource featuring the first financial large language models (LLMs), instruction tuning data, and evaluation benchmarks to holistically assess financial LLMs. Our goal is to continually push forward the open-source development of financial artificial intelligence (AI).
- [THUDM/ChatGLM2-6B](https://github.com/THUDM/ChatGLM2-6B): ChatGLM2-6B: An Open Bilingual Chat LLM | 开源双语对话语言模型
- [databrickslabs/dolly](https://github.com/databrickslabs/dolly): Databricks’ Dolly, a large language model trained on the Databricks Machine Learning Platform <https://www.databricks.com/blog/2023/03/24/hello-dolly-democratizing-magic-chatgpt-open-models.html>
- [lvwerra/trl](https://github.com/lvwerra/trl): Train transformer language models with reinforcement learning. <http://hf.co/docs/trl>
- [PKU-YuanGroup/ChatLaw](https://github.com/PKU-YuanGroup/ChatLaw): 中文法律大模型 <https://chatlaw.cloud/lawchat/>
- [WisdomShell/codeshell](https://github.com/WisdomShell/codeshell): A series of large language models developed by PKU-KCL <http://se.pku.edu.cn/kcl>
- [AI4Finance-Foundation/FinNLP](https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FinNLP): Democratizing Internet-scale financial data.
- [AI4Finance-Foundation/FinGPT](https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FinGPT): Data-Centric FinGPT. Open-source for open finance! Revolutionize 🔥 We'll soon release the trained model.
- [llSourcell/DoctorGPT](https://github.com/llSourcell/DoctorGPT): DoctorGPT is an LLM that can pass the US Medical Licensing Exam. It works offline, it's cross-platform, & your health data stays private.
- [nlpxucan/WizardLM](https://github.com/nlpxucan/WizardLM): Family of instruction-following LLMs powered by Evol-Instruct: WizardLM, WizardCoder and WizardMath
- [lyogavin/Anima](https://github.com/lyogavin/Anima): 33B Chinese LLM, DPO QLORA, 100K context, AirLLM 70B inference with single 4GB GPU

## Applications

- [yihong0618/bilingual_book_maker](https://github.com/yihong0618/bilingual_book_maker): Make bilingual epub books Using AI translate
- [futantan/OpenGpt](https://github.com/futantan/OpenGpt): Create your own ChatGPT App in seconds. <https://open-gpt.app>
- [SevaSk/ecoute](https://github.com/SevaSk/ecoute): Ecoute is a live transcription tool that provides real-time transcripts for both the user's microphone input (You) and the user's speakers output (Speaker) in a textbox. It also generates a suggested response using OpenAI's GPT-3.5 for the user to say based on the live transcription of the conversation.
- [sourcegraph/cody](https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody): AI that knows your entire codebase <https://cody.dev>
- [danswer-ai/danswer](https://github.com/danswer-ai/danswer): Ask Questions in natural language and get Answers backed by private sources. Connects to tools like Slack, GitHub, Confluence, etc. <https://docs.danswer.dev/>
- [SpursGoZmy/Tabular-LLM](https://github.com/SpursGoZmy/Tabular-LLM): 本项目旨在收集开源的表格智能任务数据集（比如表格问答、表格-文本生成等），将原始数据整理为指令微调格式的数据并微调 LLM，进而增强 LLM 对于表格数据的理解，最终构建出专门面向表格智能任务的大型语言模型。
- [kaixindelele/ChatPaper](https://github.com/kaixindelele/ChatPaper): Use ChatGPT to summarize the arXiv papers. 全流程加速科研，利用 chatgpt 进行论文全文总结+专业翻译+润色+审稿+审稿回复 <https://chatwithpaper.org>
- [Coframe/coffee](https://github.com/Coframe/coffee): Build and iterate on your UI 10x faster with AI - right from your own IDE ☕️
- [SqueezeAILab/LLMCompiler](https://github.com/SqueezeAILab/LLMCompiler): LLMCompiler: An LLM Compiler for Parallel Function Calling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04511>
- [mlabonne/llm-course](https://github.com/mlabonne/llm-course): Course to get into Large Language Models (LLMs) with roadmaps and Colab notebooks. <https://mlabonne.github.io/blog/>
- [nomic-ai/gpt4all](https://github.com/nomic-ai/gpt4all): gpt4all: open-source LLM chatbots that you can run anywhere <https://gpt4all.io>

### LLM Prompts

- [dair-ai/Prompt-Engineering-Guide](https://github.com/dair-ai/Prompt-Engineering-Guide): 🐙 Guides, papers, lecture, and resources for prompt engineering <https://www.promptingguide.ai>
- [jevantang/chatgpt-prompts](https://github.com/jevantang/chatgpt-prompts): 分门别类的 ChatGPT 中文提示语大全。 <https://prompts.fresns.cn>
- [promptslab/Promptify](https://github.com/promptslab/Promptify): Prompt Engineering | Use GPT or other prompt based models to get structured output. Join our discord for Prompt-Engineering, LLMs and other latest research
- [f/awesome-chatgpt-prompts](https://github.com/f/awesome-chatgpt-prompts): This repo includes ChatGPT prompt curation to use ChatGPT better. <https://prompts.chat/>
- [PlexPt/awesome-chatgpt-prompts-zh](https://github.com/PlexPt/awesome-chatgpt-prompts-zh): ChatGPT 中文调教指南。各种场景使用指南。学习怎么让它听你的话。 <https://chatguide.plexpt.com/>
- [thinkingjimmy/Learning-Prompt](https://github.com/thinkingjimmy/Learning-Prompt): 免费 Prompt Engineering 教程 <https://learningprompt.wiki>
- [datawhalechina/prompt-engineering-for-developers](https://github.com/datawhalechina/prompt-engineering-for-developers): 吴恩达《ChatGPT Prompt Engineering for Developers》课程中文版
- [Illumine-Labs/GreatMaster](https://github.com/Illumine-Labs/GreatMaster): Master, help us to awaken and enlighten. 大师，我悟了。
- [Illumine-Labs/RustChat](https://github.com/Illumine-Labs/RustChat): Rust Daily Learning and Work Assistant
- [linexjlin/GPTs](https://github.com/linexjlin/GPTs): leaked prompts of GPTs
- [ai-boost/Awesome-GPTs](https://github.com/ai-boost/Awesome-GPTs): Curated list of awesome GPTs 👍. <https://github.com/ai-boost/awesome-gpts>

### ChatBot UI

- [Chanzhaoyu/chatgpt-web](https://github.com/Chanzhaoyu/chatgpt-web): 用 Express 和 Vue3 搭建的 ChatGPT 演示网页
- [mckaywrigley/chatbot-ui](https://github.com/mckaywrigley/chatbot-ui): An open-source ChatGPT UI. <https://www.chatbotui.com>
- [ztjhz/BetterChatGPT](https://github.com/ztjhz/BetterChatGPT): Play and chat smarter with Better ChatGPT - an amazing open-source web app with a better UI for exploring OpenAI's ChatGPT API! <http://bettergpt.chat>
- [Yidadaa/ChatGPT-Next-Web](https://github.com/Yidadaa/ChatGPT-Next-Web): 一键拥有你自己的 ChatGPT 网页服务。 One-Click to deploy your own ChatGPT web UI. <https://chat-gpt-next-web.vercel.app>
- [WongSaang/chatgpt-ui](https://github.com/WongSaang/chatgpt-ui): A ChatGPT web client that supports multiple users, multiple database connections for persistent data storage, supports i18n. Provides Docker images and quick deployment scripts.
- [Leizhenpeng/ChatGPT-PerfectUI](https://github.com/Leizhenpeng/ChatGPT-PerfectUI): ✨ 用 Vue3 + Vite + Tailwindcss 复刻 ChatGPT！体验一模一样的 web-app！✨
- [ljsabc/Fujisaki](https://github.com/ljsabc/Fujisaki): An ongoing (fast prototyping) project to create your own doppelgänger based on your Twitter archive and LoRA+Alpaca
- [xtekky/chatgpt-clone](https://github.com/xtekky/chatgpt-clone): ChatGPT interface with better UI <https://g4f.ai>
- [serge-chat/serge](https://github.com/serge-chat/serge): A web interface for chatting with Alpaca through llama.cpp. Fully dockerized, with an easy to use API. <https://serge.chat>
- [Shaunwei/RealChar](https://github.com/Shaunwei/RealChar): 🎙️🤖Create, Customize and Talk to your AI Character/Companion in Realtime (All in One Codebase!). Have a natural seamless conversation with AI everywhere (mobile, web and terminal) using LLM OpenAI GPT3.5/4, Anthropic Claude2, Chroma Vector DB, Whisper Speech2Text, ElevenLabs Text2Speech🎙️🤖 <https://RealChar.ai/>
- [Bin-Huang/chatbox](https://github.com/Bin-Huang/chatbox): A cross-platform desktop application for ChatGPT API (OpenAI API), also a prompt debugging and management tool. <https://chatboxapp.xyz>
- [ollama-webui/ollama-webui](https://github.com/ollama-webui/ollama-webui): ChatGPT-Style Web UI Client for Ollama 🦙 <https://ollamahub.com/>
- [lencx/Noi](https://github.com/lencx/Noi): 🦄 AI + Tools + Plugins + Community <https://noi.nofwl.com>

Commit message:

Add embedchain, tightwrap and rpp

topics/llm.md, after:

# About LLM

## Framework

### Agents / Chains / Composability

- [langchain-ai/langchain](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain): ⚡ Building applications with LLMs through composability ⚡ <https://python.langchain.com/>
  - [kyrolabs/awesome-langchain](https://github.com/kyrolabs/awesome-langchain): 😎 Awesome list of tools and projects with the awesome LangChain framework
- [logspace-ai/langflow](https://github.com/logspace-ai/langflow): ⛓️ LangFlow is a UI for LangChain, designed with react-flow to provide an effortless way to experiment and prototype flows.
- [langgenius/dify](https://github.com/langgenius/dify): One API for plugins and datasets, one interface for prompt engineering and visual operation, all for creating powerful AI applications. <https://dify.ai>
- [embedchain/embedchain](https://github.com/embedchain/embedchain): The Open Source RAG framework <https://docs.embedchain.ai>
  - [Demo: Chat with PDF](https://ec-chat-pdf.streamlit.app/)
- [run-llama/llama_index](https://github.com/run-llama/llama_index): LlamaIndex (formerly GPT Index) is a data framework for your LLM applications <https://docs.llamaindex.ai>
- [pathwaycom/llm-app](https://github.com/pathwaycom/llm-app): LLM App is a production framework for building and serving AI applications and LLM-enabled real-time data pipelines. <https://pathway.com/developers/showcases/llm-app-pathway/>
- [safevideo/autollm](https://github.com/safevideo/autollm): Ship RAG based LLM web apps in seconds.
- [lastmile-ai/aiconfig](https://github.com/lastmile-ai/aiconfig): aiconfig -- config-driven, source control friendly AI application development <https://aiconfig.lastmileai.dev>

- [microsoft/semantic-kernel](https://github.com/microsoft/semantic-kernel): Integrate cutting-edge LLM technology quickly and easily into your apps <https://aka.ms/semantic-kernel>
  - [microsoft/kernel-memory](https://github.com/microsoft/kernel-memory): Index and query any data using LLM and natural language, tracking sources and showing citations.
  - [kinfey/SemanticKernelCookBook](https://github.com/kinfey/SemanticKernelCookBook): Semantic Kernel's cook book
- [microsoft/promptflow](https://github.com/microsoft/promptflow): Build high-quality LLM apps - from prototyping, testing to production deployment and monitoring. <https://microsoft.github.io/promptflow/>
- [microsoft/guidance](https://github.com/microsoft/guidance): A guidance language for controlling large language models.
- [microsoft/JARVIS](https://github.com/microsoft/JARVIS): JARVIS, a system to connect LLMs with ML community
- [microsoft/TypeChat](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeChat): TypeChat is a library that makes it easy to build natural language interfaces using types. <https://microsoft.github.io/TypeChat/>
- [microsoft/lida](https://github.com/microsoft/lida): Automatic Generation of Visualizations and Infographics using Large Language Models <https://microsoft.github.io/lida/>
- [microsoft/CodeT](https://github.com/microsoft/CodeT): This repository contains projects that aims to equip large-scale pretrained language models with better programming and reasoning skills. These projects are presented by Microsoft Research Asia and Microsoft Azure AI.
- [microsoft/azurechatgpt](https://github.com/microsoft/azurechatgpt): 🤖 Azure ChatGPT: Private & secure ChatGPT for internal enterprise use 💼
- [Azure/kaito](https://github.com/Azure/kaito): Kubernetes AI Toolchain Operator

- [kyegomez/tree-of-thoughts](https://github.com/kyegomez/tree-of-thoughts): Plug in and Play Implementation of Tree of Thoughts: Deliberate Problem Solving with Large Language Models that Elevates Model Reasoning by atleast 70% <https://discord.gg/qUtxnK2NMf>
- [a16z-infra/cog-llama-template](https://github.com/a16z-infra/cog-llama-template): LLaMA Cog template

- [TransformerOptimus/SuperAGI](https://github.com/TransformerOptimus/SuperAGI): <⚡️> SuperAGI - A dev-first open source autonomous AI agent framework. Enabling developers to build, manage & run useful autonomous agents quickly and reliably. <https://superagi.com/>
- [AntonOsika/gpt-engineer](https://github.com/AntonOsika/gpt-engineer): Specify what you want it to build, the AI asks for clarification, and then builds it.
- ❔ [Xpitfire/symbolicai](https://github.com/Xpitfire/symbolicai): Compositional Differentiable Programming Library
- 📝 [1rgs/jsonformer](https://github.com/1rgs/jsonformer): A Bulletproof Way to Generate Structured JSON from Language Models
- [piercefreeman/gpt-json](https://github.com/piercefreeman/gpt-json): Structured and typehinted GPT responses in Python
- [noamgat/lm-format-enforcer](https://github.com/noamgat/lm-format-enforcer): Enforce the output format (JSON Schema, Regex etc) of a language model
- [ThousandBirdsInc/chidori](https://github.com/ThousandBirdsInc/chidori): A reactive runtime for building durable AI agents <https://docs.thousandbirds.ai>

### Tools

- [Helicone/helicone](https://github.com/Helicone/helicone): Helicone is an open-source observability platform for GPT-3 users. Companies save on their OpenAI bills and identify application issues by monitoring their usage, latency, and costs on Helicone. <https://www.helicone.ai/>
- [togethercomputer/OpenChatKit](https://github.com/togethercomputer/OpenChatKit): OpenChatKit provides a powerful, open-source base to create both specialized and general purpose chatbots for various applications. The kit includes an instruction-tuned language models, a moderation model, and an extensible retrieval system for including up-to-date responses from custom repositories.
- [zilliztech/GPTCache](https://github.com/zilliztech/GPTCache): GPTCache is a library for creating semantic cache to store responses from LLM queries. <https://gptcache.readthedocs.io>
- [mirrors2/opencatd-open](https://github.com/mirrors2/opencatd-open): opencatd-open 是 OpenCat 团队版的开源实现 <https://opencatd.zeabur.app>
- [go-skynet/LocalAI](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI): 🤖 Self-hosted, community-driven, local OpenAI-compatible API. Drop-in replacement for OpenAI running LLMs on consumer-grade hardware. Free Open Source OpenAI alternative. No GPU required. LocalAI is an API to run ggml compatible models: llama, gpt4all, rwkv, whisper, vicuna, koala, gpt4all-j, cerebras, falcon, dolly, starcoder, and many other <https://localai.io>
- [iryna-kondr/scikit-llm](https://github.com/iryna-kondr/scikit-llm): Seamlessly integrate powerful language models like ChatGPT into scikit-learn for enhanced text analysis tasks.
- [ShishirPatil/gorilla](https://github.com/ShishirPatil/gorilla): Gorilla: An API store for LLMs <https://gorilla.cs.berkeley.edu/>
- 🌟 [r2d4/rellm](https://github.com/r2d4/rellm): Exact structure out of any language model completion.
- [smpanaro/more-ane-transformers](https://github.com/smpanaro/more-ane-transformers): Run transformers (incl. LLMs) on the Apple Neural Engine.
- [Unstructured-IO/unstructured](https://github.com/Unstructured-IO/unstructured): Open source libraries and APIs to build custom preprocessing pipelines for labeling, training, or production machine learning pipelines. <https://www.unstructured.io/>

## Model

### OpenAI GPT

- [openai/openai-cookbook](https://github.com/openai/openai-cookbook): Examples and guides for using the OpenAI API
- [pagebrain/lexeme](https://github.com/pagebrain/lexeme): Lexeme - Open source ChatGPT Text Editor <https://pagebrain.ai/lexeme/>
- [openai/chatgpt-retrieval-plugin](https://github.com/openai/chatgpt-retrieval-plugin): The ChatGPT Retrieval Plugin repository provides a flexible solution for semantic search and retrieval of personal or organizational documents using natural language queries.
- [openai/weak-to-strong](https://github.com/openai/weak-to-strong): No description, website, or topics provided.

### Llama 2

- [Llama 2: Open Foundation and Fine-Tuned Chat Models](https://ai.meta.com/research/publications/llama-2-open-foundation-and-fine-tuned-chat-models/)
  - [Responsible Use Guide: your resource for building responsibly](https://ai.meta.com/llama/responsible-use-guide/)
- [facebookresearch/llama](https://github.com/facebookresearch/llama): Inference code for LLaMA models
- [facebookresearch/llama-recipes](https://github.com/facebookresearch/llama-recipes): Examples and recipes for Llama 2 model
- [ggerganov/llama.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp): Port of Facebook's LLaMA model in C/C++
- [karpathy/llama2.c](https://github.com/karpathy/llama2.c): Inference Llama 2 in one file of pure C
- [ayaka14732/llama-2-jax](https://github.com/ayaka14732/llama-2-jax): JAX implementation of the Llama 2 model
- [tairov/llama2.mojo](https://github.com/tairov/llama2.mojo): Inference Llama 2 in one file of pure 🔥
- [jrudolph/llama2.scala](https://github.com/jrudolph/llama2.scala): Inference Llama 2 in one file of hideous Scala (A port of llama2.c from Andrej Karpathy)
- [openlm-research/open_llama](https://github.com/openlm-research/open_llama): OpenLLaMA, a permissively licensed open source reproduction of Meta AI’s LLaMA 7B trained on the RedPajama dataset [facebookresearch/PurpleLlama](https://github.com/facebookresearch/PurpleLlama): Set of tools to assess and improve LLM security.

### Mistral AI

- [mistralai/mistral-src](https://github.com/mistralai/mistral-src): Reference implementation of Mistral AI 7B v0.1 model. <https://mistral.ai/>
- [dvmazur/mixtral-offloading](https://github.com/dvmazur/mixtral-offloading): Run Mixtral-8x7B models in Colab or consumer desktops

### Multi Modal

- [haotian-liu/LLaVA](https://github.com/haotian-liu/LLaVA): [NeurIPS'23 Oral] Visual Instruction Tuning: LLaVA (Large Language-and-Vision Assistant) built towards GPT-4V level capabilities. <https://llava.hliu.cc>
- [apple/ml-ferret](https://github.com/apple/ml-ferret): An End-to-End MLLM that Accept Any-Form Referring and Ground Anything in Response.

### Others

- [LLM Collection](https://www.promptingguide.ai/models/collection): This section consists of a collection and summary of notable and foundational LLMs.
- [Hannibal046/Awesome-LLM](https://github.com/Hannibal046/Awesome-LLM): Awesome-LLM: a curated list of Large Language Model
- [lyogavin/Anima](https://github.com/lyogavin/Anima): 33B Chinese LLM, DPO QLORA, 100K context, AirLLM 70B inference with single 4GB GPU
- [bigcode-project/starcoder](https://github.com/bigcode-project/starcoder): Home of StarCoder: fine-tuning & inference!
- [declare-lab/flan-alpaca](https://github.com/declare-lab/flan-alpaca): This repository contains code for extending the Stanford Alpaca synthetic instruction tuning to existing instruction-tuned models such as Flan-T5.
- [chancefocus/PIXIU](https://github.com/chancefocus/PIXIU): This repository introduces PIXIU, an open-source resource featuring the first financial large language models (LLMs), instruction tuning data, and evaluation benchmarks to holistically assess financial LLMs. Our goal is to continually push forward the open-source development of financial artificial intelligence (AI).
- [THUDM/ChatGLM2-6B](https://github.com/THUDM/ChatGLM2-6B): ChatGLM2-6B: An Open Bilingual Chat LLM | 开源双语对话语言模型
- [databrickslabs/dolly](https://github.com/databrickslabs/dolly): Databricks’ Dolly, a large language model trained on the Databricks Machine Learning Platform <https://www.databricks.com/blog/2023/03/24/hello-dolly-democratizing-magic-chatgpt-open-models.html>
- [lvwerra/trl](https://github.com/lvwerra/trl): Train transformer language models with reinforcement learning. <http://hf.co/docs/trl>
- [PKU-YuanGroup/ChatLaw](https://github.com/PKU-YuanGroup/ChatLaw): 中文法律大模型 <https://chatlaw.cloud/lawchat/>
- [WisdomShell/codeshell](https://github.com/WisdomShell/codeshell): A series of large language models developed by PKU-KCL <http://se.pku.edu.cn/kcl>
- [AI4Finance-Foundation/FinNLP](https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FinNLP): Democratizing Internet-scale financial data.
- [AI4Finance-Foundation/FinGPT](https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FinGPT): Data-Centric FinGPT. Open-source for open finance! Revolutionize 🔥 We'll soon release the trained model.
- [llSourcell/DoctorGPT](https://github.com/llSourcell/DoctorGPT): DoctorGPT is an LLM that can pass the US Medical Licensing Exam. It works offline, it's cross-platform, & your health data stays private.
- [nlpxucan/WizardLM](https://github.com/nlpxucan/WizardLM): Family of instruction-following LLMs powered by Evol-Instruct: WizardLM, WizardCoder and WizardMath
- [lyogavin/Anima](https://github.com/lyogavin/Anima): 33B Chinese LLM, DPO QLORA, 100K context, AirLLM 70B inference with single 4GB GPU

## Applications

- [yihong0618/bilingual_book_maker](https://github.com/yihong0618/bilingual_book_maker): Make bilingual epub books Using AI translate
- [futantan/OpenGpt](https://github.com/futantan/OpenGpt): Create your own ChatGPT App in seconds. <https://open-gpt.app>
- [SevaSk/ecoute](https://github.com/SevaSk/ecoute): Ecoute is a live transcription tool that provides real-time transcripts for both the user's microphone input (You) and the user's speakers output (Speaker) in a textbox. It also generates a suggested response using OpenAI's GPT-3.5 for the user to say based on the live transcription of the conversation.
- [sourcegraph/cody](https://github.com/sourcegraph/cody): AI that knows your entire codebase <https://cody.dev>
- [danswer-ai/danswer](https://github.com/danswer-ai/danswer): Ask Questions in natural language and get Answers backed by private sources. Connects to tools like Slack, GitHub, Confluence, etc. <https://docs.danswer.dev/>
- [SpursGoZmy/Tabular-LLM](https://github.com/SpursGoZmy/Tabular-LLM): 本项目旨在收集开源的表格智能任务数据集（比如表格问答、表格-文本生成等），将原始数据整理为指令微调格式的数据并微调 LLM，进而增强 LLM 对于表格数据的理解，最终构建出专门面向表格智能任务的大型语言模型。
- [kaixindelele/ChatPaper](https://github.com/kaixindelele/ChatPaper): Use ChatGPT to summarize the arXiv papers. 全流程加速科研，利用 chatgpt 进行论文全文总结+专业翻译+润色+审稿+审稿回复 <https://chatwithpaper.org>
- [Coframe/coffee](https://github.com/Coframe/coffee): Build and iterate on your UI 10x faster with AI - right from your own IDE ☕️
- [SqueezeAILab/LLMCompiler](https://github.com/SqueezeAILab/LLMCompiler): LLMCompiler: An LLM Compiler for Parallel Function Calling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04511>
- [mlabonne/llm-course](https://github.com/mlabonne/llm-course): Course to get into Large Language Models (LLMs) with roadmaps and Colab notebooks. <https://mlabonne.github.io/blog/>
- [nomic-ai/gpt4all](https://github.com/nomic-ai/gpt4all): gpt4all: open-source LLM chatbots that you can run anywhere <https://gpt4all.io>

### LLM Prompts

- [dair-ai/Prompt-Engineering-Guide](https://github.com/dair-ai/Prompt-Engineering-Guide): 🐙 Guides, papers, lecture, and resources for prompt engineering <https://www.promptingguide.ai>
- [jevantang/chatgpt-prompts](https://github.com/jevantang/chatgpt-prompts): 分门别类的 ChatGPT 中文提示语大全。 <https://prompts.fresns.cn>
- [promptslab/Promptify](https://github.com/promptslab/Promptify): Prompt Engineering | Use GPT or other prompt based models to get structured output. Join our discord for Prompt-Engineering, LLMs and other latest research
- [f/awesome-chatgpt-prompts](https://github.com/f/awesome-chatgpt-prompts): This repo includes ChatGPT prompt curation to use ChatGPT better. <https://prompts.chat/>
- [PlexPt/awesome-chatgpt-prompts-zh](https://github.com/PlexPt/awesome-chatgpt-prompts-zh): ChatGPT 中文调教指南。各种场景使用指南。学习怎么让它听你的话。 <https://chatguide.plexpt.com/>
- [thinkingjimmy/Learning-Prompt](https://github.com/thinkingjimmy/Learning-Prompt): 免费 Prompt Engineering 教程 <https://learningprompt.wiki>
- [datawhalechina/prompt-engineering-for-developers](https://github.com/datawhalechina/prompt-engineering-for-developers): 吴恩达《ChatGPT Prompt Engineering for Developers》课程中文版
- [Illumine-Labs/GreatMaster](https://github.com/Illumine-Labs/GreatMaster): Master, help us to awaken and enlighten. 大师，我悟了。
- [Illumine-Labs/RustChat](https://github.com/Illumine-Labs/RustChat): Rust Daily Learning and Work Assistant
- [linexjlin/GPTs](https://github.com/linexjlin/GPTs): leaked prompts of GPTs
- [ai-boost/Awesome-GPTs](https://github.com/ai-boost/Awesome-GPTs): Curated list of awesome GPTs 👍. <https://github.com/ai-boost/awesome-gpts>

### ChatBot UI

- [Chanzhaoyu/chatgpt-web](https://github.com/Chanzhaoyu/chatgpt-web): 用 Express 和 Vue3 搭建的 ChatGPT 演示网页
- [mckaywrigley/chatbot-ui](https://github.com/mckaywrigley/chatbot-ui): An open-source ChatGPT UI. <https://www.chatbotui.com>
- [ztjhz/BetterChatGPT](https://github.com/ztjhz/BetterChatGPT): Play and chat smarter with Better ChatGPT - an amazing open-source web app with a better UI for exploring OpenAI's ChatGPT API! <http://bettergpt.chat>
- [Yidadaa/ChatGPT-Next-Web](https://github.com/Yidadaa/ChatGPT-Next-Web): 一键拥有你自己的 ChatGPT 网页服务。 One-Click to deploy your own ChatGPT web UI. <https://chat-gpt-next-web.vercel.app>
- [WongSaang/chatgpt-ui](https://github.com/WongSaang/chatgpt-ui): A ChatGPT web client that supports multiple users, multiple database connections for persistent data storage, supports i18n. Provides Docker images and quick deployment scripts.
- [Leizhenpeng/ChatGPT-PerfectUI](https://github.com/Leizhenpeng/ChatGPT-PerfectUI): ✨ 用 Vue3 + Vite + Tailwindcss 复刻 ChatGPT！体验一模一样的 web-app！✨
- [ljsabc/Fujisaki](https://github.com/ljsabc/Fujisaki): An ongoing (fast prototyping) project to create your own doppelgänger based on your Twitter archive and LoRA+Alpaca
- [xtekky/chatgpt-clone](https://github.com/xtekky/chatgpt-clone): ChatGPT interface with better UI <https://g4f.ai>
- [serge-chat/serge](https://github.com/serge-chat/serge): A web interface for chatting with Alpaca through llama.cpp. Fully dockerized, with an easy to use API. <https://serge.chat>
- [Shaunwei/RealChar](https://github.com/Shaunwei/RealChar): 🎙️🤖Create, Customize and Talk to your AI Character/Companion in Realtime (All in One Codebase!). Have a natural seamless conversation with AI everywhere (mobile, web and terminal) using LLM OpenAI GPT3.5/4, Anthropic Claude2, Chroma Vector DB, Whisper Speech2Text, ElevenLabs Text2Speech🎙️🤖 <https://RealChar.ai/>
- [Bin-Huang/chatbox](https://github.com/Bin-Huang/chatbox): A cross-platform desktop application for ChatGPT API (OpenAI API), also a prompt debugging and management tool. <https://chatboxapp.xyz>
- [ollama-webui/ollama-webui](https://github.com/ollama-webui/ollama-webui): ChatGPT-Style Web UI Client for Ollama 🦙 <https://ollamahub.com/>
- [lencx/Noi](https://github.com/lencx/Noi): 🦄 AI + Tools + Plugins + Community <https://noi.nofwl.com>
