topics/nlp.md, before:

# Natural Language Processing

## Libraries

- 🌟 [WojciechMula/pyahocorasick](https://github.com/WojciechMula/pyahocorasick): Python module (C extension and plain python) implementing Aho-Corasick algorithm
- 🌟 [BurntSushi/aho-corasick](https://github.com/BurntSushi/aho-corasick): A fast implementation of Aho-Corasick in Rust.
- [argilla-io/argilla](https://github.com/argilla-io/argilla): ✨ Open-source tool for data-centric NLP. Argilla helps domain experts and data teams to build better NLP datasets in less time. <https://docs.argilla.io>
- [nomic-ai/nomic](https://github.com/nomic-ai/nomic): Interact with Massive Embedding and Text Datasets in Your Web Browser <https://atlas.nomic.ai>
- [chroma-core/chroma](https://github.com/chroma-core/chroma): the open source embedding database <https://www.trychroma.com>
- 🌟 [openai/tiktoken](https://github.com/openai/tiktoken): tiktoken is a fast BPE tokeniser for use with OpenAI's models.
- [huggingface/text-embeddings-inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-embeddings-inference): A blazing fast inference solution for text embeddings models <https://huggingface.github.io/text-embeddings-inference/>
- [bytedance/lightseq](https://github.com/bytedance/lightseq): LightSeq: A High Performance Library for Sequence Processing and Generation
- [vercel-labs/ai](https://github.com/vercel-labs/ai): Build AI-powered applications with React, Svelte, and Vue <https://sdk.vercel.ai/docs>
- [oobabooga/text-generation-webui](https://github.com/oobabooga/text-generation-webui): A gradio web UI for running Large Language Models like LLaMA, llama.cpp, GPT-J, Pythia, OPT, and GALACTICA.
- [shibing624/text2vec](https://github.com/shibing624/text2vec): text2vec, text to vector. 文本向量表征工具，把文本转化为向量矩阵，实现了 Word2Vec、RankBM25、Sentence-BERT、CoSENT 等文本表征、文本相似度计算模型，开箱即用。
- [sloria/textblob](https://github.com/sloria/textblob): Simple, Pythonic, text processing--Sentiment analysis, part-of-speech tagging, noun phrase extraction, translation, and more. <https://textblob.readthedocs.io/>
- 🌟 [andyzoujm/representation-engineering](https://github.com/andyzoujm/representation-engineering): Representation Engineering: A Top-Down Approach to AI Transparency <https://www.ai-transparency.org/>
- [huggingface/llm-ls](https://github.com/huggingface/llm-ls): LSP server leveraging LLMs for code completion (and more?)
- [dqbd/tiktokenizer](https://github.com/dqbd/tiktokenizer): Online playground for OpenAPI tokenizers <https://tiktokenizer.vercel.app>

## Embedding Search (ANN)

- [facebookresearch/faiss](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss): A library for efficient similarity search and clustering of dense vectors. <https://faiss.ai>
- [spotify/annoy](https://github.com/spotify/annoy): Approximate Nearest Neighbors in C++/Python optimized for memory usage and loading/saving to disk
- [matsui528/rii](https://github.com/matsui528/rii): Fast and memory-efficient ANN with a subset-search functionality
- [microsoft/DiskANN](https://github.com/microsoft/DiskANN): Graph-structured Indices for Scalable, Fast, Fresh and Filtered Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search
- [unum-cloud/usearch](https://github.com/unum-cloud/usearch): Smaller & Faster Vector Search Engine for C++, Python, JavaScript, Rust, Java, GoLang, Wolfram <https://unum-cloud.github.io/usearch/>
- [marqo-ai/marqo](https://github.com/marqo-ai/marqo): Vector search for humans. <https://www.marqo.ai/>
- [nmslib/hnswlib](https://github.com/nmslib/hnswlib): Header-only C++/python library for fast approximate nearest neighbors <https://github.com/nmslib/hnswlib>
- [instant-labs/instant-distance](https://github.com/instant-labs/instant-distance): Fast approximate nearest neighbor searching in Rust, based on HNSW index
- [harsha-simhadri/big-ann-benchmarks](https://github.com/harsha-simhadri/big-ann-benchmarks): Framework for evaluating ANNS algorithms on billion scale datasets. <https://big-ann-benchmarks.com>

Commit message:

Add faker-js, vocs and skyzh/write-you-a-vector-db

topics/nlp.md, after:

# Natural Language Processing

## Libraries

- 🌟 [WojciechMula/pyahocorasick](https://github.com/WojciechMula/pyahocorasick): Python module (C extension and plain python) implementing Aho-Corasick algorithm
- 🌟 [BurntSushi/aho-corasick](https://github.com/BurntSushi/aho-corasick): A fast implementation of Aho-Corasick in Rust.
- [argilla-io/argilla](https://github.com/argilla-io/argilla): ✨ Open-source tool for data-centric NLP. Argilla helps domain experts and data teams to build better NLP datasets in less time. <https://docs.argilla.io>
- [nomic-ai/nomic](https://github.com/nomic-ai/nomic): Interact with Massive Embedding and Text Datasets in Your Web Browser <https://atlas.nomic.ai>
- [chroma-core/chroma](https://github.com/chroma-core/chroma): the open source embedding database <https://www.trychroma.com>
- 🌟 [openai/tiktoken](https://github.com/openai/tiktoken): tiktoken is a fast BPE tokeniser for use with OpenAI's models.
- [huggingface/text-embeddings-inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-embeddings-inference): A blazing fast inference solution for text embeddings models <https://huggingface.github.io/text-embeddings-inference/>
- [bytedance/lightseq](https://github.com/bytedance/lightseq): LightSeq: A High Performance Library for Sequence Processing and Generation
- [vercel-labs/ai](https://github.com/vercel-labs/ai): Build AI-powered applications with React, Svelte, and Vue <https://sdk.vercel.ai/docs>
- [oobabooga/text-generation-webui](https://github.com/oobabooga/text-generation-webui): A gradio web UI for running Large Language Models like LLaMA, llama.cpp, GPT-J, Pythia, OPT, and GALACTICA.
- [shibing624/text2vec](https://github.com/shibing624/text2vec): text2vec, text to vector. 文本向量表征工具，把文本转化为向量矩阵，实现了 Word2Vec、RankBM25、Sentence-BERT、CoSENT 等文本表征、文本相似度计算模型，开箱即用。
- [sloria/textblob](https://github.com/sloria/textblob): Simple, Pythonic, text processing--Sentiment analysis, part-of-speech tagging, noun phrase extraction, translation, and more. <https://textblob.readthedocs.io/>
- 🌟 [andyzoujm/representation-engineering](https://github.com/andyzoujm/representation-engineering): Representation Engineering: A Top-Down Approach to AI Transparency <https://www.ai-transparency.org/>
- [huggingface/llm-ls](https://github.com/huggingface/llm-ls): LSP server leveraging LLMs for code completion (and more?)
- [dqbd/tiktokenizer](https://github.com/dqbd/tiktokenizer): Online playground for OpenAPI tokenizers <https://tiktokenizer.vercel.app>
- 🌟 [michaelfeil/infinity](https://github.com/michaelfeil/infinity): Infinity is a high-throughput, low-latency REST API for serving vector embeddings, supporting a wide range of sentence-transformer models and frameworks.

## Embedding Search (ANN)

- [facebookresearch/faiss](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss): A library for efficient similarity search and clustering of dense vectors. <https://faiss.ai>
- [spotify/annoy](https://github.com/spotify/annoy): Approximate Nearest Neighbors in C++/Python optimized for memory usage and loading/saving to disk
- [matsui528/rii](https://github.com/matsui528/rii): Fast and memory-efficient ANN with a subset-search functionality
- [microsoft/DiskANN](https://github.com/microsoft/DiskANN): Graph-structured Indices for Scalable, Fast, Fresh and Filtered Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search
- [unum-cloud/usearch](https://github.com/unum-cloud/usearch): Smaller & Faster Vector Search Engine for C++, Python, JavaScript, Rust, Java, GoLang, Wolfram <https://unum-cloud.github.io/usearch/>
- [marqo-ai/marqo](https://github.com/marqo-ai/marqo): Vector search for humans. <https://www.marqo.ai/>
- [nmslib/hnswlib](https://github.com/nmslib/hnswlib): Header-only C++/python library for fast approximate nearest neighbors <https://github.com/nmslib/hnswlib>
- [instant-labs/instant-distance](https://github.com/instant-labs/instant-distance): Fast approximate nearest neighbor searching in Rust, based on HNSW index
- [harsha-simhadri/big-ann-benchmarks](https://github.com/harsha-simhadri/big-ann-benchmarks): Framework for evaluating ANNS algorithms on billion scale datasets. <https://big-ann-benchmarks.com>
