topics/saas.md, before:

# Interesting Projects / SaaS (by One Idea)

- [Val Town](https://www.val.town/): If GitHub Gists could run And AWS Lambda were fun
- [Doodle Board](https://www.doodleboard.pro/): An all-in-one whiteboard with built-in doodle styles to help you easily organize, and present your ideas.
- [Imprint](https://imprintapp.com/): See Psychology/Leadership/Economics/... in a whole new way. The world’s most important knowledge, visualized.
- [Tally](https://tally.so/): The simplest way to create formshighlight
- [Glasp](https://glasp.co/): Collect and Share Your Favorite Words. Highlight & save notes on any web page ✍️
- [ppresume](https://ppresume.com/): A LaTeX Based Resume Builder. that helps people create beautifully typed resumes in minutes
- [GetDeploying](https://getdeploying.com/): Find and compare cloud providers for your next project.
- [hi.new](https://hey.new/): Prevent spam.
- [苹果 M 系列处理器参数大全](http://kylebing.cn/tools/apple-chip/)
- 🌟 [Copy Book](https://copybook.me/): Copy book is a collection of commonly used texts. So whenever you need a copy for a design or if you ever get stuck in the middle of development, you can use copy book.
- [polarsource/polar](https://github.com/polarsource/polar): An open source Merchant of Record. Sell SaaS and digital products in minutes. <https://polar.sh>
  - why not stripe?
- [Ok! So... Draw online](https://okso.app/): The drawing app to express, grasp, and organize your thoughts and ideas
- [AndySpider/uicloner-extension](https://github.com/AndySpider/uicloner-extension): Browser extension to instantly clone any web UI you see with one click, exports to HTML + Tailwind CSS or HTML + pure CSS
- [mfts/papermark](https://github.com/mfts/papermark): Papermark is the open-source DocSend alternative with built-in analytics and custom domains. <https://papermark.io>
- 🌟 [t3dotgg/stripe-recommendations](https://github.com/t3dotgg/stripe-recommendations): I've built with Stripe for years. This is how I do it without going mad.
- [arikchakma/maily.to](https://github.com/arikchakma/maily.to): Craft beautiful emails effortlessly with Maily, the powerful email editor that ensures impeccable communication across all major clients. <https://maily.to>
- [public.me](https://public.me/blog): blog and share updates with everyone. **using imessage**.
- [Are.na](https://www.are.na/)
  - Awesome!
  - Are.na is:
    1. online software for saving and organizing the content that is important to you
    2. a toolkit for assembling new worlds from the scraps of the old
  - People describe Are.na as "~playlists, but for ideas~" or an "~Internet memory palace~."
- [F\*ck Leetcode.](https://www.interviewcoder.co/): Interview Coder is an invisible AI for technical interviews.
  - ........

Commit message:

Update saas.md (#1)
* Update saas.md

* Add entry from @franz101

---------

Co-authored-by: Lanqing Huang <lqhuang@outlook.com>

topics/saas.md, after:

# Interesting Projects / SaaS (by One Idea)

- [Val Town](https://www.val.town/): If GitHub Gists could run And AWS Lambda were fun
- [Doodle Board](https://www.doodleboard.pro/): An all-in-one whiteboard with built-in doodle styles to help you easily organize, and present your ideas.
- [Imprint](https://imprintapp.com/): See Psychology/Leadership/Economics/... in a whole new way. The world’s most important knowledge, visualized.
- [Tally](https://tally.so/): The simplest way to create formshighlight
- [Glasp](https://glasp.co/): Collect and Share Your Favorite Words. Highlight & save notes on any web page ✍️
- [ppresume](https://ppresume.com/): A LaTeX Based Resume Builder. that helps people create beautifully typed resumes in minutes
- [GetDeploying](https://getdeploying.com/): Find and compare cloud providers for your next project.
- [hi.new](https://hey.new/): Prevent spam.
- [苹果 M 系列处理器参数大全](http://kylebing.cn/tools/apple-chip/)
- 🌟 [Copy Book](https://copybook.me/): Copy book is a collection of commonly used texts. So whenever you need a copy for a design or if you ever get stuck in the middle of development, you can use copy book.
- [polarsource/polar](https://github.com/polarsource/polar): An open source Merchant of Record. Sell SaaS and digital products in minutes. <https://polar.sh>
  - why not stripe?
- [Ok! So... Draw online](https://okso.app/): The drawing app to express, grasp, and organize your thoughts and ideas
- [AndySpider/uicloner-extension](https://github.com/AndySpider/uicloner-extension): Browser extension to instantly clone any web UI you see with one click, exports to HTML + Tailwind CSS or HTML + pure CSS
- [mfts/papermark](https://github.com/mfts/papermark): Papermark is the open-source DocSend alternative with built-in analytics and custom domains. <https://papermark.io>
- 🌟 [t3dotgg/stripe-recommendations](https://github.com/t3dotgg/stripe-recommendations): I've built with Stripe for years. This is how I do it without going mad.
- [arikchakma/maily.to](https://github.com/arikchakma/maily.to): Craft beautiful emails effortlessly with Maily, the powerful email editor that ensures impeccable communication across all major clients. <https://maily.to>
- [public.me](https://public.me/blog): blog and share updates with everyone. **using imessage**.
- [Are.na](https://www.are.na/)
  - Awesome!
  - Are.na is:
    1. online software for saving and organizing the content that is important to you
    2. a toolkit for assembling new worlds from the scraps of the old
  - People describe Are.na as "~playlists, but for ideas~" or an "~Internet memory palace~."
- [Interview.sh](https://interview.sh/): Interview.sh AI assistant for technical interviews in the browser.
  - Contribute by [@franz101](https://github.com/franz101) 🥰
