hacker-life/cli.md, before:

# CLI

## Resources

- 🌟🌟🌟 [cli-guidelines/cli-guidelines](https://github.com/cli-guidelines/cli-guidelines): A guide to help you write better command-line programs, taking traditional UNIX principles and updating them for the modern day. <https://clig.dev>
- [jlevy/the-art-of-command-line](https://github.com/jlevy/the-art-of-command-line): Master the command line, in one page
- [awesome-macos-command-line](https://git.herrbischoff.com/awesome-macos-command-line/about/):A curated list of shell commands and tools specific to macOS.
- [awesome-command-line-apps](https://git.herrbischoff.com/awesome-command-line-apps/about/): A curated list of useful command line apps, in celebration of the TUI.
- [alebcay/awesome-shell](https://github.com/alebcay/awesome-shell): A curated list of awesome command-line frameworks, toolkits, guides and gizmos. Inspired by awesome-php.
- 🌟 [ibraheemdev/modern-unix](https://github.com/ibraheemdev/modern-unix): A collection of modern/faster/saner alternatives to common unix commands.
- [xuxiaodong/usingcli-book](https://github.com/xuxiaodong/usingcli-book): 像黑客一样使用命令行 <https://selfhostedserver.com/usingcli-book>
- [kushaldas/lym](https://github.com/kushaldas/lym): Linux command line for you and me <https://lym.readthedocs.io/en/latest>
- [chubin/cheat.sh](https://github.com/chubin/cheat.sh): the only cheat sheet you need <https://cheat.sh/>
- 🌟 [z-shell/zi](https://github.com/z-shell/zi): ✨ A Swiss Army Knife for Zsh - Unix Shell <https://wiki.zshell.dev>

## command

- [kaplanelad/shellfirm](https://github.com/kaplanelad/shellfirm): Intercept any risky patterns (default or defined by you) and prompt you a small challenge for double verification
- [sharkdp/fd](https://github.com/sharkdp/fd): A simple, fast and user-friendly alternative to 'find'
- [sharkdp/bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat): A cat(1) clone with wings.
- [sigoden/dufs](https://github.com/sigoden/dufs): A file server that supports static serving, uploading, searching, accessing control, webdav...
- [svenstaro/miniserve](https://github.com/svenstaro/miniserve): 🌟 For when you really just want to serve some files over HTTP right now!
- [rejetto/hfs](https://github.com/rejetto/hfs/): HFS is a web file server to run on your computer. Share folders or even a single file thanks to the virtual file system. <https://telegram.dog/hfsusers>
- [PaulJuliusMartinez/jless](https://github.com/PaulJuliusMartinez/jless): jless is a command-line JSON viewer designed for reading, exploring, and searching through JSON data. <https://jless.io>
- [asciinema/asciinema](https://github.com/asciinema/asciinema): Terminal session recorder 📹 <https://asciinema.org>
- [asciinema/agg](https://github.com/asciinema/agg): asciinema gif generator
- [charmbracelet/vhs](https://github.com/charmbracelet/vhs): Your CLI home video recorder 📼
- [ellie/atuin](https://github.com/ellie/atuin): 🐢 Magical shell history <https://atuin.sh>
- [blicky/ncdu](https://g.blicky.net/ncdu.git): Ncdu (NCurses Disk Usage) is a disk usage analyzer with an ncurses interface. <https://dev.yorhel.nl/ncdu>
- [bootandy/dust](https://github.com/bootandy/dust): A more intuitive version of du in rust
- [Byron/dua-cli](https://github.com/Byron/dua-cli): View disk space usage and delete unwanted data, fast.
- [lra/mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup): Keep your application settings in sync (OS X/Linux)
- [exdx/dcp](https://github.com/exdx/dcp): docker cp made easy
- [mutagen-io/mutagen](https://github.com/mutagen-io/mutagen): Fast file synchronization and network forwarding for remote development <https://mutagen.io>
- [chshersh/tool-sync](https://github.com/chshersh/tool-sync): 🧰 Download pre-built binaries of all your favourite tools with a single command
- 🌟 [dalance/procs](https://github.com/dalance/procs): A modern replacement for ps written in Rust
- [praetorian-inc/noseyparker](https://github.com/praetorian-inc/noseyparker): Nosey Parker is a command-line program that finds secrets and sensitive information in textual data and Git history.
- [nelhage/reptyr](https://github.com/nelhage/reptyr): Reparent a running program to a new terminal
- [ouch-org/ouch](https://github.com/ouch-org/ouch): Painless compression and decompression for your terminal
- [solidiquis/erdtree](https://github.com/solidiquis/erdtree): A multi-threaded file-tree visualizer and disk usage analyzer.
- [mptre/yank](https://github.com/mptre/yank): Yank terminal output to clipboard
- [skywind3000/z.lua](https://github.com/skywind3000/z.lua): ⚡ A new cd command that helps you navigate faster by learning your habits.
- [peco/peco](https://github.com/peco/peco): Simplistic interactive filtering tool
- [johnkerl/miller](https://github.com/johnkerl/miller): Miller is like awk, sed, cut, join, and sort for name-indexed data such as CSV, TSV, and tabular JSON <https://miller.readthedocs.io/>
- [zwpaper/dilu](https://github.com/zwpaper/dilu): A colorful CLI client with icons for accessing data via OpenDAL
- 🌟 [binpash/try](https://github.com/binpash/try): "Do, or do not. There is no try." We're setting out to change that: `try cmd` and commit---or not.
- 🌟 [pvolok/mprocs](https://github.com/pvolok/mprocs): Run multiple commands in parallel
- 🌟 [charmbracelet/gum](https://github.com/charmbracelet/gum): A tool for glamorous shell scripts 🎀
- 🌟 [rs/dnstrace](https://github.com/rs/dnstrace): DNS resolution tracing tool
- [wilfred/difftastic](https://github.com/wilfred/difftastic): a structural diff that understands syntax 🟥🟩 <https://difftastic.wilfred.me.uk/>
- [microsoft/inshellisense](https://github.com/microsoft/inshellisense): IDE style command line auto complete
- 🌟 [bensadeh/tailspin](https://github.com/bensadeh/tailspin): 🌀 A log file highlighter
- [ducaale/xh](https://github.com/ducaale/xh): Friendly and fast tool for sending HTTP requests
- [Xfennec/progress](https://github.com/Xfennec/progress): Linux tool to show progress for cp, mv, dd, ... (formerly known as cv)
- 🌟 [francoismichel/ssh3](https://github.com/francoismichel/ssh3): SSH3: faster and rich secure shell using HTTP/3, checkout our article here: https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08396 <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08396>
- [n0-computer/iroh](https://github.com/n0-computer/iroh): Sync anywhere <https://iroh.computer>
- 🌟 [alexpovel/srgn](https://github.com/alexpovel/srgn): A code surgeon for precise text and code transplantation. A marriage of `tr`/`sed`, `rg` and `tree-sitter`. <https://crates.io/crates/srgn/>
- [timvw/qv](https://github.com/timvw/qv): Quickly view your data
- [sigoden/argc-completions](https://github.com/sigoden/argc-completions): Completions for any shell. Supports 1000+ commands. Automaticlly generate completion definition from help text and man page.
- [jeessy2/ddns-go](https://github.com/jeessy2/ddns-go): Simple and easy to use DDNS. Support Aliyun, Tencent Cloud, Dnspod, Cloudflare, Callback, Huawei Cloud, Baidu Cloud, Porkbun, GoDaddy, Namecheap, NameSilo...

## TUI applications

- 🌟 [veeso/termscp](https://github.com/veeso/termscp): 🖥 A feature rich terminal UI file transfer and explorer with support for SCP/SFTP/FTP/S3 <https://termscp.veeso.dev/>
- [jarun/nnn](https://github.com/jarun/nnn): n³ The unorthodox terminal file manager
- [kamiyaa/joshuto](https://github.com/kamiyaa/joshuto): ranger-like terminal file manager written in Rust
- [sxyazi/yazi](https://github.com/sxyazi/yazi): 💥 Blazing fast terminal file manager written in Rust, based on async I/O. <https://yazi-rs.github.io/docs/>
- [Canop/broot](https://github.com/Canop/broot): A new way to see and navigate directory trees : https://dystroy.org/broot
- [thetacom/hexabyte](https://github.com/thetacom/hexabyte): A modern, modular, and robust TUI hex editor. <http://io.thetacom.info/hexabyte/>
- [dlvhdr/gh-dash](https://github.com/dlvhdr/gh-dash): A beautiful CLI dashboard for GitHub 🚀 <https://dlvhdr.github.io/gh-dash>
- 🌟 [charmbracelet/wish](https://github.com/charmbracelet/wish): Make SSH apps, just like that! 💫
- [sqshq/sampler](https://github.com/sqshq/sampler): Tool for shell commands execution, visualization and alerting. Configured with a simple YAML file. <https://sampler.dev>
- [tstack/lnav](https://github.com/tstack/lnav): Log file navigator <http://lnav.org>
- [tconbeer/harlequin](https://github.com/tconbeer/harlequin): The SQL IDE for Your Terminal. <https://harlequin.sh>
- [mac-cleanup/mac-cleanup-py](https://github.com/mac-cleanup/mac-cleanup-py): 👨‍💻 Python cleanup script for macOS
- 🌟 [Inlyne-Project/inlyne](https://github.com/Inlyne-Project/inlyne): Introducing Inlyne, a GPU powered yet browserless tool to help you quickly view markdown files in the blink of an eye.
- [Lissy93/AdGuardian-Term](https://github.com/Lissy93/AdGuardian-Term): 🛡️ Terminal-based, real-time traffic monitoring and statistics for your AdGuard Home instance <https://adguardian.as93.net>

## Monitor

- [nicolargo/glances](https://github.com/nicolargo/glances): Glances an Eye on your system. A top/htop alternative for GNU/Linux, BSD, Mac OS and Windows operating systems. <http://nicolargo.github.io/glances/>
- [ClementTsang/bottom](https://github.com/ClementTsang/bottom): Yet another cross-platform graphical process/system monitor. <https://clementtsang.github.io/bottom>
- [aristocratos/btop](https://github.com/aristocratos/btop): A monitor of resources
- [amanusk/s-tui](https://github.com/amanusk/s-tui): Terminal-based CPU stress and monitoring utility <https://amanusk.github.io/s-tui>

Commit message:

Add odiff, thingbuf and bikeshed

hacker-life/cli.md, after:

# CLI

## Resources

- 🌟🌟🌟 [cli-guidelines/cli-guidelines](https://github.com/cli-guidelines/cli-guidelines): A guide to help you write better command-line programs, taking traditional UNIX principles and updating them for the modern day. <https://clig.dev>
- [jlevy/the-art-of-command-line](https://github.com/jlevy/the-art-of-command-line): Master the command line, in one page
- [awesome-macos-command-line](https://git.herrbischoff.com/awesome-macos-command-line/about/):A curated list of shell commands and tools specific to macOS.
- [awesome-command-line-apps](https://git.herrbischoff.com/awesome-command-line-apps/about/): A curated list of useful command line apps, in celebration of the TUI.
- [alebcay/awesome-shell](https://github.com/alebcay/awesome-shell): A curated list of awesome command-line frameworks, toolkits, guides and gizmos. Inspired by awesome-php.
- 🌟 [ibraheemdev/modern-unix](https://github.com/ibraheemdev/modern-unix): A collection of modern/faster/saner alternatives to common unix commands.
- [xuxiaodong/usingcli-book](https://github.com/xuxiaodong/usingcli-book): 像黑客一样使用命令行 <https://selfhostedserver.com/usingcli-book>
- [kushaldas/lym](https://github.com/kushaldas/lym): Linux command line for you and me <https://lym.readthedocs.io/en/latest>
- [chubin/cheat.sh](https://github.com/chubin/cheat.sh): the only cheat sheet you need <https://cheat.sh/>
- 🌟 [z-shell/zi](https://github.com/z-shell/zi): ✨ A Swiss Army Knife for Zsh - Unix Shell <https://wiki.zshell.dev>

## command

- [kaplanelad/shellfirm](https://github.com/kaplanelad/shellfirm): Intercept any risky patterns (default or defined by you) and prompt you a small challenge for double verification
- [sharkdp/fd](https://github.com/sharkdp/fd): A simple, fast and user-friendly alternative to 'find'
- [sharkdp/bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat): A cat(1) clone with wings.
- [sigoden/dufs](https://github.com/sigoden/dufs): A file server that supports static serving, uploading, searching, accessing control, webdav...
- [svenstaro/miniserve](https://github.com/svenstaro/miniserve): 🌟 For when you really just want to serve some files over HTTP right now!
- [rejetto/hfs](https://github.com/rejetto/hfs/): HFS is a web file server to run on your computer. Share folders or even a single file thanks to the virtual file system. <https://telegram.dog/hfsusers>
- [PaulJuliusMartinez/jless](https://github.com/PaulJuliusMartinez/jless): jless is a command-line JSON viewer designed for reading, exploring, and searching through JSON data. <https://jless.io>
- [asciinema/asciinema](https://github.com/asciinema/asciinema): Terminal session recorder 📹 <https://asciinema.org>
- [asciinema/agg](https://github.com/asciinema/agg): asciinema gif generator
- [charmbracelet/vhs](https://github.com/charmbracelet/vhs): Your CLI home video recorder 📼
- [ellie/atuin](https://github.com/ellie/atuin): 🐢 Magical shell history <https://atuin.sh>
- [blicky/ncdu](https://g.blicky.net/ncdu.git): Ncdu (NCurses Disk Usage) is a disk usage analyzer with an ncurses interface. <https://dev.yorhel.nl/ncdu>
- [bootandy/dust](https://github.com/bootandy/dust): A more intuitive version of du in rust
- [Byron/dua-cli](https://github.com/Byron/dua-cli): View disk space usage and delete unwanted data, fast.
- [lra/mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup): Keep your application settings in sync (OS X/Linux)
- [exdx/dcp](https://github.com/exdx/dcp): docker cp made easy
- [mutagen-io/mutagen](https://github.com/mutagen-io/mutagen): Fast file synchronization and network forwarding for remote development <https://mutagen.io>
- [chshersh/tool-sync](https://github.com/chshersh/tool-sync): 🧰 Download pre-built binaries of all your favourite tools with a single command
- 🌟 [dalance/procs](https://github.com/dalance/procs): A modern replacement for ps written in Rust
- [praetorian-inc/noseyparker](https://github.com/praetorian-inc/noseyparker): Nosey Parker is a command-line program that finds secrets and sensitive information in textual data and Git history.
- [nelhage/reptyr](https://github.com/nelhage/reptyr): Reparent a running program to a new terminal
- [ouch-org/ouch](https://github.com/ouch-org/ouch): Painless compression and decompression for your terminal
- [solidiquis/erdtree](https://github.com/solidiquis/erdtree): A multi-threaded file-tree visualizer and disk usage analyzer.
- [mptre/yank](https://github.com/mptre/yank): Yank terminal output to clipboard
- [skywind3000/z.lua](https://github.com/skywind3000/z.lua): ⚡ A new cd command that helps you navigate faster by learning your habits.
- [peco/peco](https://github.com/peco/peco): Simplistic interactive filtering tool
- [johnkerl/miller](https://github.com/johnkerl/miller): Miller is like awk, sed, cut, join, and sort for name-indexed data such as CSV, TSV, and tabular JSON <https://miller.readthedocs.io/>
- [zwpaper/dilu](https://github.com/zwpaper/dilu): A colorful CLI client with icons for accessing data via OpenDAL
- 🌟 [binpash/try](https://github.com/binpash/try): "Do, or do not. There is no try." We're setting out to change that: `try cmd` and commit---or not.
- 🌟 [pvolok/mprocs](https://github.com/pvolok/mprocs): Run multiple commands in parallel
- 🌟 [charmbracelet/gum](https://github.com/charmbracelet/gum): A tool for glamorous shell scripts 🎀
- 🌟 [rs/dnstrace](https://github.com/rs/dnstrace): DNS resolution tracing tool
- [wilfred/difftastic](https://github.com/wilfred/difftastic): a structural diff that understands syntax 🟥🟩 <https://difftastic.wilfred.me.uk/>
- [microsoft/inshellisense](https://github.com/microsoft/inshellisense): IDE style command line auto complete
- 🌟 [bensadeh/tailspin](https://github.com/bensadeh/tailspin): 🌀 A log file highlighter
- [ducaale/xh](https://github.com/ducaale/xh): Friendly and fast tool for sending HTTP requests
- [Xfennec/progress](https://github.com/Xfennec/progress): Linux tool to show progress for cp, mv, dd, ... (formerly known as cv)
- 🌟 [francoismichel/ssh3](https://github.com/francoismichel/ssh3): SSH3: faster and rich secure shell using HTTP/3, checkout our article here: https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08396 <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.08396>
- [n0-computer/iroh](https://github.com/n0-computer/iroh): Sync anywhere <https://iroh.computer>
- 🌟 [alexpovel/srgn](https://github.com/alexpovel/srgn): A code surgeon for precise text and code transplantation. A marriage of `tr`/`sed`, `rg` and `tree-sitter`. <https://crates.io/crates/srgn/>
- [timvw/qv](https://github.com/timvw/qv): Quickly view your data
- [sigoden/argc-completions](https://github.com/sigoden/argc-completions): Completions for any shell. Supports 1000+ commands. Automaticlly generate completion definition from help text and man page.
- [jeessy2/ddns-go](https://github.com/jeessy2/ddns-go): Simple and easy to use DDNS. Support Aliyun, Tencent Cloud, Dnspod, Cloudflare, Callback, Huawei Cloud, Baidu Cloud, Porkbun, GoDaddy, Namecheap, NameSilo...
- 🌟 [dmtrKovalenko/odiff](https://github.com/dmtrKovalenko/odiff): The fastest pixel-by-pixel image visual difference tool in the world.

## TUI applications

- 🌟 [veeso/termscp](https://github.com/veeso/termscp): 🖥 A feature rich terminal UI file transfer and explorer with support for SCP/SFTP/FTP/S3 <https://termscp.veeso.dev/>
- [jarun/nnn](https://github.com/jarun/nnn): n³ The unorthodox terminal file manager
- [kamiyaa/joshuto](https://github.com/kamiyaa/joshuto): ranger-like terminal file manager written in Rust
- [sxyazi/yazi](https://github.com/sxyazi/yazi): 💥 Blazing fast terminal file manager written in Rust, based on async I/O. <https://yazi-rs.github.io/docs/>
- [Canop/broot](https://github.com/Canop/broot): A new way to see and navigate directory trees : https://dystroy.org/broot
- [thetacom/hexabyte](https://github.com/thetacom/hexabyte): A modern, modular, and robust TUI hex editor. <http://io.thetacom.info/hexabyte/>
- [dlvhdr/gh-dash](https://github.com/dlvhdr/gh-dash): A beautiful CLI dashboard for GitHub 🚀 <https://dlvhdr.github.io/gh-dash>
- 🌟 [charmbracelet/wish](https://github.com/charmbracelet/wish): Make SSH apps, just like that! 💫
- [sqshq/sampler](https://github.com/sqshq/sampler): Tool for shell commands execution, visualization and alerting. Configured with a simple YAML file. <https://sampler.dev>
- [tstack/lnav](https://github.com/tstack/lnav): Log file navigator <http://lnav.org>
- [tconbeer/harlequin](https://github.com/tconbeer/harlequin): The SQL IDE for Your Terminal. <https://harlequin.sh>
- [mac-cleanup/mac-cleanup-py](https://github.com/mac-cleanup/mac-cleanup-py): 👨‍💻 Python cleanup script for macOS
- 🌟 [Inlyne-Project/inlyne](https://github.com/Inlyne-Project/inlyne): Introducing Inlyne, a GPU powered yet browserless tool to help you quickly view markdown files in the blink of an eye.
- [Lissy93/AdGuardian-Term](https://github.com/Lissy93/AdGuardian-Term): 🛡️ Terminal-based, real-time traffic monitoring and statistics for your AdGuard Home instance <https://adguardian.as93.net>

## Monitor

- [nicolargo/glances](https://github.com/nicolargo/glances): Glances an Eye on your system. A top/htop alternative for GNU/Linux, BSD, Mac OS and Windows operating systems. <http://nicolargo.github.io/glances/>
- [ClementTsang/bottom](https://github.com/ClementTsang/bottom): Yet another cross-platform graphical process/system monitor. <https://clementtsang.github.io/bottom>
- [aristocratos/btop](https://github.com/aristocratos/btop): A monitor of resources
- [amanusk/s-tui](https://github.com/amanusk/s-tui): Terminal-based CPU stress and monitoring utility <https://amanusk.github.io/s-tui>
