hacker-life/hacker.md, before:

# Control your work flow

## Dev tools

- [kampersanda/goodname](https://github.com/kampersanda/goodname): Tool to assist you with cool naming of your methods and software <https://kampersanda.github.io/goodname>
- [quicktype/quicktype](https://github.com/quicktype/quicktype): Generate types and converters from JSON, Schema, and GraphQL <https://app.quicktype.io>
- 🌟 [AykutSarac/jsoncrack.com](https://github.com/AykutSarac/jsoncrack.com): ⭐️ Transform data chaos into clarity with JSON Crack - the ultimate JSON visualization solution. <https://jsoncrack.com>
- [triggerdotdev/jsonhero-web](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/jsonhero-web): JSON Hero is an open-source, beautiful JSON explorer for the web that lets you browse, search and navigate your JSON files at speed. 🚀. Built with 💜 by the Trigger.dev team. <https://jsonhero.io/>
- [hyperupcall/autoenv](https://github.com/hyperupcall/autoenv): Directory-based environments
- [muety/wakapi](https://github.com/muety/wakapi): 📊 A minimalist, self-hosted WakaTime-compatible backend for coding statistics <https://wakapi.dev>
- 🌟 [lowlighter/metrics](https://github.com/lowlighter/metrics): 📊 An infographics generator with 30+ plugins and 300+ options to display stats about your GitHub account and render them as SVG, Markdown, PDF or JSON! <https://metrics.lecoq.io>
- [zealdocs/zeal](https://github.com/zealdocs/zeal): Offline documentation browser inspired by Dash <https://zealdocs.org>
- 🌟 [wei/socialify](https://github.com/wei/socialify): 💞 Socialify your project. 🌐 Share with the world! <http://socialify.git.ci>
- 🌟 [moul/quicssh](https://github.com/moul/quicssh): SSH over QUIC <https://manfred.life/quicssh>
- [Finb/Bark](https://github.com/Finb/Bark): Bark is an iOS App which allows you to push custom notifications to your iPhone <https://bark.day.app>
- [axodotdev/oranda](https://github.com/axodotdev/oranda): 🎁 generate beautiful landing pages for your developer tools <https://opensource.axo.dev/oranda/>
- [NixOS/nix](https://github.com/NixOS/nix): Nix, the purely functional package manager <https://nixos.org/>
  - [Welcome to nix.dev](https://nix.dev/): nix.dev is the home of official documentation for the Nix ecosystem.
- [SuperManito/LinuxMirrors](https://github.com/SuperManito/LinuxMirrors): GNU/Linux 一键更换系统软件源脚本 <https://linuxmirrors.cn>
- [chanhx/crabviz](https://github.com/chanhx/crabviz): 🦀 A tool to generate interactive call graphs for multiple languages

### Misc linters / formatters

- 🌟 [tweag/topiary](https://github.com/tweag/topiary): Topiary aims to be a uniform formatter for simple languages, as part of the Tree-sitter ecosystem. <https://topiary.tweag.io/>
- [dotenv-linter/dotenv-linter](https://github.com/dotenv-linter/dotenv-linter): ⚡️Lightning-fast linter for .env files. Written in Rust 🦀 <https://dotenv-linter.github.io>
- [Jinjiang/zhlint](https://github.com/Jinjiang/zhlint): A linting tool for Chinese language. <https://jinjiang.dev/zhlint/>
- [stoplightio/spectral](https://github.com/stoplightio/spectral): A flexible JSON/YAML linter for creating automated style guides, with baked in support for OpenAPI v3.1, v3.0, and v2.0 as well as AsyncAPI v2.x. <https://stoplight.io/spectral>
- [textlint/textlint](https://github.com/textlint/textlint): The pluggable natural language linter for text and markdown. <https://textlint.github.io/>
- [errata-ai/vale](https://github.com/errata-ai/vale): 📝 A markup-aware linter for prose built with speed and extensibility in mind. <https://vale.sh>
- [amperser/proselint](https://github.com/amperser/proselint): A linter for prose. <http://proselint.com>
- [secretlint/secretlint](https://github.com/secretlint/secretlint): Pluggable linting tool to prevent committing credential.

### Git

- 🌟 [alexkaratarakis/gitattributes](https://github.com/alexkaratarakis/gitattributes): A collection of useful .gitattributes templates
- 🌟 [hickford/git-credential-oauth](https://github.com/hickford/git-credential-oauth): A Git credential helper that securely authenticates to GitHub, GitLab and BitBucket using OAuth. <https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hickford/git-credential-oauth>
- [newren/git-filter-repo](https://github.com/newren/git-filter-repo): Quickly rewrite git repository history (filter-branch replacement)
- [rtyley/bfg-repo-cleaner](https://github.com/rtyley/bfg-repo-cleaner): Removes large or troublesome blobs like git-filter-branch does, but faster. And written in Scala <https://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/>

### Code as Graph

- [ivanceras/svgbob](https://github.com/ivanceras/svgbob): Convert your ascii diagram scribbles into happy little SVG <http://ivanceras.github.io/svgbob-editor>
- [github/cmark-gfm](https://github.com/github/cmark-gfm): GitHub's fork of cmark, a CommonMark parsing and rendering library and program in C
- [jgm/djot](https://github.com/jgm/djot): A light markup language <https://djot.net>
- [JakeSteam/Mermaid](https://github.com/JakeSteam/Mermaid): A collection of cheatsheets for using Mermaid diagrams on GitHub and elsewhere
- [terrastruct/d2](https://github.com/terrastruct/d2): D2 is a modern diagram scripting language that turns text to diagrams. <https://d2lang.com> <https://blog.jakelee.co.uk/using-mermaid-for-diagrams-on-github>
- [sonyxperiadev/dataflow](https://github.com/sonyxperiadev/dataflow): Render graphs using a declarative markup. <https://hackage.haskell.org/package/dataflow>
- [structurizr](https://github.com/structurizr): Visualise and document your software architecture with the C4 model <https://structurizr.com>
- [plantuml-stdlib/C4-PlantUML](https://github.com/plantuml-stdlib/C4-PlantUML): C4-PlantUML combines the benefits of PlantUML and the C4 model for providing a simple way of describing and communicate software architectures
- [mingrammer/diagrams](https://github.com/mingrammer/diagrams): 🎨 Diagram as Code for prototyping cloud system architectures <https://diagrams.mingrammer.com>
- [yuzutech/kroki](https://github.com/yuzutech/kroki): Creates diagrams from textual descriptions! <https://kroki.io>
- [diagrams/diagrams](https://github.com/diagrams/diagrams): Embedded domain-specific language for declarative vector graphics (wrapper package)
- 🌟 [penrose/penrose](https://github.com/penrose/penrose): Create beautiful diagrams just by typing mathematical notation in plain text. <https://penrose.cs.cmu.edu>
- [google/typograms](https://github.com/google/typograms): Typograms (short for typographic diagrams) is a lightweight image format (text/typogram) useful for defining simple diagrams in technical documentation
- 🌟 [varkor/quiver](https://github.com/varkor/quiver): A modern commutative diagram editor for the web. <https://q.uiver.app>
- [samuelmtimbo/unit](https://github.com/samuelmtimbo/unit): Next Generation Visual Programming System <https://unit.land>

## Homelab

- [meienberger/runtipi](https://github.com/meienberger/runtipi): ⛺️ Tipi is a homeserver for everyone! One command setup, one click installs for your favorites self-hosted apps. ✨
- [sandstorm-io/sandstorm](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm): Sandstorm is a self-hostable web productivity suite. It's implemented as a security-hardened web app package manager. <https://sandstorm.io>
- [sshguard/sshguard](https://bitbucket.org/sshguard/sshguard/): SSHGuard protects hosts from brute-force attacks against SSH and other services. It aggregates system logs and blocks repeat offenders using one of several firewall backends. <https://www.sshguard.net>
- 🌟 [Lissy93/dashy](https://github.com/Lissy93/dashy): 🚀 A self-hostable personal dashboard built for you. Includes status-checking, widgets, themes, icon packs, a UI editor and tons more! <https://dashy.to>
- [Kea DHCP](https://www.isc.org/kea/): Modern, open source DHCPv4 & DHCPv6 server
- [coredns/coredns](https://github.com/coredns/coredns): CoreDNS is a DNS server that chains plugins <https://coredns.io/>
- [mdlayher/corerad](https://github.com/mdlayher/corerad): CoreRAD is an extensible and observable IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Protocol router advertisement daemon. Apache 2.0 Licensed. <https://corerad.net>
- [Lissy93/portainer-templates](https://github.com/Lissy93/portainer-templates): 🚢 400+ 1-click Portainer app templates <https://portainer-templates.as93.net>
- [AnalogJ/scrutiny](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny): Hard Drive S.M.A.R.T Monitoring, Historical Trends & Real World Failure Thresholds
- [stagit](https://git.codemadness.org/stagit/file/README.html): static git page generator
- [zrepl/zrepl](https://github.com/zrepl/zrepl): One-stop ZFS backup & replication solution <https://zrepl.github.io>
- [Fallenbagel/jellyseerr](https://github.com/Fallenbagel/jellyseerr): fork of overseerr for jellyfin support
- [khuedoan/homelab](https://github.com/khuedoan/homelab): Modern self-hosting infrastructure, fully automated from empty disk to operating services with a single command. <https://homelab.khuedoan.com>
- [MetinSeylan/homelab](https://github.com/MetinSeylan/homelab): bare-metal homelab k8s automation <https://metin.sh>
- 🌟 [gethomepage/homepage](https://github.com/gethomepage/homepage): A highly customizable homepage (or startpage / application dashboard) with Docker and service API integrations. <https://gethomepage.dev/>
- [awesome-foss/awesome-sysadmin](https://github.com/awesome-foss/awesome-sysadmin): A curated list of amazingly awesome open-source sysadmin resources.
- 🌟🌟🌟 [louislam/dockge](https://github.com/louislam/dockge): A fancy, easy-to-use and reactive self-hosted docker compose.yaml stack-oriented manager <https://dockge.kuma.pet>

## HomeKit / IoT

- [homebridge/homebridge](https://github.com/homebridge/homebridge): HomeKit support for the impatient. <https://homebridge.io>
- [frenck/awesome-home-assistant](https://github.com/frenck/awesome-home-assistant): A curated list of amazingly awesome Home Assistant resources. <https://awesome-ha.com>
- [binwiederhier/ntfy](https://github.com/binwiederhier/ntfy): Send push notifications to your phone or desktop using PUT/POST <https://ntfy.sh>
- [unpoller/unpoller](https://github.com/unpoller/unpoller): Application: Collect ALL UniFi Controller, Site, Device & Client Data - Export to InfluxDB or Prometheus <https://unpoller.com>
- [thunder439/QNASMINI](https://github.com/thunder439/QNASMINI): QNAS MINI 是 6 盘位 2.5 寸 NAS
- [workerforce/unifi-ddns](https://github.com/workerforce/unifi-ddns): Cloudflare DDNS (Dynamic DNS) support for UniFi OS <https://workerforce.github.io/unifi-ddns/>
- [adriankumpf/teslamate](https://github.com/adriankumpf/teslamate): A self-hosted data logger for your Tesla 🚘 <https://docs.teslamate.org>

## Misc

- [llwslc/grammar-club](https://github.com/llwslc/grammar-club): 《语法俱乐部》- 旋元佑 <https://llwslc.github.io/grammar-club>
- [Kaiyiwing/qwerty-learner](https://github.com/Kaiyiwing/qwerty-learner): 为键盘工作者设计的单词记忆与英语肌肉记忆锻炼软件 / Words learning and English muscle memory training software designed for keyboard workers <https://qwerty.kaiyi.cool>
- [zhaoolee/ins](https://github.com/zhaoolee/ins): 🍭 互联网从业者的灵感数据库，无广告，Github Actions 自动检测网站访问速度
- 🌟 [nusr/hacker-laws-zh](https://github.com/nusr/hacker-laws-zh): 💻📖 对开发人员有用的定律、理论、原则和模式。(Laws, Theories, Principles and Patterns that developers will find useful.)
- [LawRefBook/Laws](https://github.com/LawRefBook/Laws)
- [TapXWorld/ChinaTextbook](https://github.com/TapXWorld/ChinaTextbook): 人教版小学到大学数学
- [public-apis/public-apis](https://github.com/public-apis/public-apis): A collective list of free APIs <http://public-apis.org>
- 🌟 [djyde/notepal](https://github.com/djyde/notepal): A simple tool to import/export your book note <https://notepal.randysoft.org>
  - export WeBook to Readwise
- [LC044/WeChatMsg](https://github.com/LC044/WeChatMsg): 提取微信聊天记录，将其导出成 HTML、Word、CSV 文档永久保存，对聊天记录进行分析生成年度聊天报告
- 🌟 [sparanoid/chinese-copywriting-guidelines](https://github.com/sparanoid/chinese-copywriting-guidelines): Chinese copywriting guidelines for better written communication／中文文案排版指北
- [ruanyf/weekly](https://github.com/ruanyf/weekly): 科技爱好者周刊，每周五发布
- [facebookresearch/personal-timeline](https://github.com/facebookresearch/personal-timeline): A public release of TimelineBuilder for building personal digital data timelines.
- [ USTC Hackergame ](https://github.com/USTC-Hackergame)
- [lizongying/my-tv](https://github.com/lizongying/my-tv): 我的电视 电视直播软件，安装即可使用 <https://lyrics.run/my-tv.html>

## Branding

- [nedbat/dinghy](https://github.com/nedbat/dinghy): A GitHub activity digest tool
- [anuraghazra/github-readme-stats](https://github.com/anuraghazra/github-readme-stats): ⚡ Dynamically generated stats for your github readmes <https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app>
- [sinaatalay/rendercv](https://github.com/sinaatalay/rendercv): LaTeX CV generator from a YAML/JSON input file. <https://sinaatalay.github.io/rendercv/>
- 🌟 [BartoszJarocki/cv](https://github.com/BartoszJarocki/cv): Print-friendly, minimalist CV page <https://cv.jarocki.me>

## ESL

- [shimohq/chinese-programmer-wrong-pronunciation](https://github.com/shimohq/chinese-programmer-wrong-pronunciation): 中国程序员容易发音错误的单词 <https://cpwp.netlify.app>
- [yujiangshui/A-Programmers-Guide-to-English](https://github.com/yujiangshui/A-Programmers-Guide-to-English): 专为程序员编写的英语学习指南 v1.2 <https://a-programmers-guide-to-english.harryyu.me>
- [hehonghui/awesome-english-ebooks](https://github.com/hehonghui/awesome-english-ebooks): 经济学人(含音频)、纽约客、卫报、连线、大西洋月刊等英语杂志免费下载,支持 epub、mobi、pdf 格式, 每周更新
- [2ndLA/English](https://github.com/2ndLA/English): 🚧 [WIP] 全面、渐进、碎片化的英语自学指引。 <https://english.highlight.ink>
- [xiaolai/everyone-can-use-english](https://github.com/xiaolai/everyone-can-use-english): 人人都能用英语

## Security / Privacy

- [undergroundwires/privacy.sexy](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy): Open-source tool to enforce privacy & security best-practices on Windows and macOS, because privacy is sexy 🍑🍆 <https://privacy.sexy>
- [privacytoolsIO/privacy-tools](https://github.com/privacytoolsIO/privacy-tools): Suggestions and Discussions for PrivacyTools.io <https://www.privacytools.io>
- [privacyguides/privacyguides.org](https://github.com/privacyguides/privacyguides.org): Protect your data against global mass surveillance programs. <https://www.privacyguides.org>
- [/e/ Foundation](https://e.foundation/e-os/): /e/OS is a complete, fully “deGoogled”, mobile ecosystem
- [imthenachoman/How-To-Secure-A-Linux-Server](https://github.com/imthenachoman/How-To-Secure-A-Linux-Server): An evolving how-to guide for securing a Linux server.
- [Email Self-Defense](https://emailselfdefense.fsf.org)
- [danielmiessler/SecLists](https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists): SecLists is the security tester's companion. It's a collection of multiple types of lists used during security assessments, collected in one place. List types include usernames, passwords, URLs, sensitive data patterns, fuzzing payloads, web shells, and many more. <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Internet_of_Things_Project>
- [rfc-st/humble](https://github.com/rfc-st/humble): A humble, and fast!, security-oriented HTTP headers analyzer. <https://github.com/rfc-st/humble>

## Open Source Software: State, Progress and Future

- [premAI-io/state-of-open-source-ai](https://github.com/premAI-io/state-of-open-source-ai): Clarity in the current fast-paced mess of Open Source innovation <https://book.premai.io/state-of-open-source-ai>
- [pi0/tired-maintainer](https://github.com/pi0/tired-maintainer): 🗒️ Notes from a tired maintainer

Commit message:

Add dbml, ranx and maxdiffusion

hacker-life/hacker.md, after:

# Control your work flow

## Dev tools

- [kampersanda/goodname](https://github.com/kampersanda/goodname): Tool to assist you with cool naming of your methods and software <https://kampersanda.github.io/goodname>
- [quicktype/quicktype](https://github.com/quicktype/quicktype): Generate types and converters from JSON, Schema, and GraphQL <https://app.quicktype.io>
- 🌟 [AykutSarac/jsoncrack.com](https://github.com/AykutSarac/jsoncrack.com): ⭐️ Transform data chaos into clarity with JSON Crack - the ultimate JSON visualization solution. <https://jsoncrack.com>
- [triggerdotdev/jsonhero-web](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/jsonhero-web): JSON Hero is an open-source, beautiful JSON explorer for the web that lets you browse, search and navigate your JSON files at speed. 🚀. Built with 💜 by the Trigger.dev team. <https://jsonhero.io/>
- [hyperupcall/autoenv](https://github.com/hyperupcall/autoenv): Directory-based environments
- [muety/wakapi](https://github.com/muety/wakapi): 📊 A minimalist, self-hosted WakaTime-compatible backend for coding statistics <https://wakapi.dev>
- 🌟 [lowlighter/metrics](https://github.com/lowlighter/metrics): 📊 An infographics generator with 30+ plugins and 300+ options to display stats about your GitHub account and render them as SVG, Markdown, PDF or JSON! <https://metrics.lecoq.io>
- [zealdocs/zeal](https://github.com/zealdocs/zeal): Offline documentation browser inspired by Dash <https://zealdocs.org>
- 🌟 [wei/socialify](https://github.com/wei/socialify): 💞 Socialify your project. 🌐 Share with the world! <http://socialify.git.ci>
- 🌟 [moul/quicssh](https://github.com/moul/quicssh): SSH over QUIC <https://manfred.life/quicssh>
- [Finb/Bark](https://github.com/Finb/Bark): Bark is an iOS App which allows you to push custom notifications to your iPhone <https://bark.day.app>
- [axodotdev/oranda](https://github.com/axodotdev/oranda): 🎁 generate beautiful landing pages for your developer tools <https://opensource.axo.dev/oranda/>
- [NixOS/nix](https://github.com/NixOS/nix): Nix, the purely functional package manager <https://nixos.org/>
  - [Welcome to nix.dev](https://nix.dev/): nix.dev is the home of official documentation for the Nix ecosystem.
- [SuperManito/LinuxMirrors](https://github.com/SuperManito/LinuxMirrors): GNU/Linux 一键更换系统软件源脚本 <https://linuxmirrors.cn>
- [chanhx/crabviz](https://github.com/chanhx/crabviz): 🦀 A tool to generate interactive call graphs for multiple languages

### Misc linters / formatters

- 🌟 [tweag/topiary](https://github.com/tweag/topiary): Topiary aims to be a uniform formatter for simple languages, as part of the Tree-sitter ecosystem. <https://topiary.tweag.io/>
- [dotenv-linter/dotenv-linter](https://github.com/dotenv-linter/dotenv-linter): ⚡️Lightning-fast linter for .env files. Written in Rust 🦀 <https://dotenv-linter.github.io>
- [Jinjiang/zhlint](https://github.com/Jinjiang/zhlint): A linting tool for Chinese language. <https://jinjiang.dev/zhlint/>
- [stoplightio/spectral](https://github.com/stoplightio/spectral): A flexible JSON/YAML linter for creating automated style guides, with baked in support for OpenAPI v3.1, v3.0, and v2.0 as well as AsyncAPI v2.x. <https://stoplight.io/spectral>
- [textlint/textlint](https://github.com/textlint/textlint): The pluggable natural language linter for text and markdown. <https://textlint.github.io/>
- [errata-ai/vale](https://github.com/errata-ai/vale): 📝 A markup-aware linter for prose built with speed and extensibility in mind. <https://vale.sh>
- [amperser/proselint](https://github.com/amperser/proselint): A linter for prose. <http://proselint.com>
- [secretlint/secretlint](https://github.com/secretlint/secretlint): Pluggable linting tool to prevent committing credential.

### Git

- 🌟 [alexkaratarakis/gitattributes](https://github.com/alexkaratarakis/gitattributes): A collection of useful .gitattributes templates
- 🌟 [hickford/git-credential-oauth](https://github.com/hickford/git-credential-oauth): A Git credential helper that securely authenticates to GitHub, GitLab and BitBucket using OAuth. <https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hickford/git-credential-oauth>
- [newren/git-filter-repo](https://github.com/newren/git-filter-repo): Quickly rewrite git repository history (filter-branch replacement)
- [rtyley/bfg-repo-cleaner](https://github.com/rtyley/bfg-repo-cleaner): Removes large or troublesome blobs like git-filter-branch does, but faster. And written in Scala <https://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/>

### Code as Graph

- [ivanceras/svgbob](https://github.com/ivanceras/svgbob): Convert your ascii diagram scribbles into happy little SVG <http://ivanceras.github.io/svgbob-editor>
- [github/cmark-gfm](https://github.com/github/cmark-gfm): GitHub's fork of cmark, a CommonMark parsing and rendering library and program in C
- [jgm/djot](https://github.com/jgm/djot): A light markup language <https://djot.net>
- [JakeSteam/Mermaid](https://github.com/JakeSteam/Mermaid): A collection of cheatsheets for using Mermaid diagrams on GitHub and elsewhere
- [terrastruct/d2](https://github.com/terrastruct/d2): D2 is a modern diagram scripting language that turns text to diagrams. <https://d2lang.com> <https://blog.jakelee.co.uk/using-mermaid-for-diagrams-on-github>
- [sonyxperiadev/dataflow](https://github.com/sonyxperiadev/dataflow): Render graphs using a declarative markup. <https://hackage.haskell.org/package/dataflow>
- [structurizr](https://github.com/structurizr): Visualise and document your software architecture with the C4 model <https://structurizr.com>
- [plantuml-stdlib/C4-PlantUML](https://github.com/plantuml-stdlib/C4-PlantUML): C4-PlantUML combines the benefits of PlantUML and the C4 model for providing a simple way of describing and communicate software architectures
- [mingrammer/diagrams](https://github.com/mingrammer/diagrams): 🎨 Diagram as Code for prototyping cloud system architectures <https://diagrams.mingrammer.com>
- [yuzutech/kroki](https://github.com/yuzutech/kroki): Creates diagrams from textual descriptions! <https://kroki.io>
- [diagrams/diagrams](https://github.com/diagrams/diagrams): Embedded domain-specific language for declarative vector graphics (wrapper package)
- 🌟 [penrose/penrose](https://github.com/penrose/penrose): Create beautiful diagrams just by typing mathematical notation in plain text. <https://penrose.cs.cmu.edu>
- [google/typograms](https://github.com/google/typograms): Typograms (short for typographic diagrams) is a lightweight image format (text/typogram) useful for defining simple diagrams in technical documentation
- 🌟 [varkor/quiver](https://github.com/varkor/quiver): A modern commutative diagram editor for the web. <https://q.uiver.app>
- [samuelmtimbo/unit](https://github.com/samuelmtimbo/unit): Next Generation Visual Programming System <https://unit.land>
- [holistics/dbml](https://github.com/holistics/dbml): Database Markup Language (DBML), designed to define and document database structures <https://dbml.dbdiagram.io>

## Homelab

- [meienberger/runtipi](https://github.com/meienberger/runtipi): ⛺️ Tipi is a homeserver for everyone! One command setup, one click installs for your favorites self-hosted apps. ✨
- [sandstorm-io/sandstorm](https://github.com/sandstorm-io/sandstorm): Sandstorm is a self-hostable web productivity suite. It's implemented as a security-hardened web app package manager. <https://sandstorm.io>
- [sshguard/sshguard](https://bitbucket.org/sshguard/sshguard/): SSHGuard protects hosts from brute-force attacks against SSH and other services. It aggregates system logs and blocks repeat offenders using one of several firewall backends. <https://www.sshguard.net>
- 🌟 [Lissy93/dashy](https://github.com/Lissy93/dashy): 🚀 A self-hostable personal dashboard built for you. Includes status-checking, widgets, themes, icon packs, a UI editor and tons more! <https://dashy.to>
- [Kea DHCP](https://www.isc.org/kea/): Modern, open source DHCPv4 & DHCPv6 server
- [coredns/coredns](https://github.com/coredns/coredns): CoreDNS is a DNS server that chains plugins <https://coredns.io/>
- [mdlayher/corerad](https://github.com/mdlayher/corerad): CoreRAD is an extensible and observable IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Protocol router advertisement daemon. Apache 2.0 Licensed. <https://corerad.net>
- [Lissy93/portainer-templates](https://github.com/Lissy93/portainer-templates): 🚢 400+ 1-click Portainer app templates <https://portainer-templates.as93.net>
- [AnalogJ/scrutiny](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny): Hard Drive S.M.A.R.T Monitoring, Historical Trends & Real World Failure Thresholds
- [stagit](https://git.codemadness.org/stagit/file/README.html): static git page generator
- [zrepl/zrepl](https://github.com/zrepl/zrepl): One-stop ZFS backup & replication solution <https://zrepl.github.io>
- [Fallenbagel/jellyseerr](https://github.com/Fallenbagel/jellyseerr): fork of overseerr for jellyfin support
- [khuedoan/homelab](https://github.com/khuedoan/homelab): Modern self-hosting infrastructure, fully automated from empty disk to operating services with a single command. <https://homelab.khuedoan.com>
- [MetinSeylan/homelab](https://github.com/MetinSeylan/homelab): bare-metal homelab k8s automation <https://metin.sh>
- 🌟 [gethomepage/homepage](https://github.com/gethomepage/homepage): A highly customizable homepage (or startpage / application dashboard) with Docker and service API integrations. <https://gethomepage.dev/>
- [awesome-foss/awesome-sysadmin](https://github.com/awesome-foss/awesome-sysadmin): A curated list of amazingly awesome open-source sysadmin resources.
- 🌟🌟🌟 [louislam/dockge](https://github.com/louislam/dockge): A fancy, easy-to-use and reactive self-hosted docker compose.yaml stack-oriented manager <https://dockge.kuma.pet>

## HomeKit / IoT

- [homebridge/homebridge](https://github.com/homebridge/homebridge): HomeKit support for the impatient. <https://homebridge.io>
- [frenck/awesome-home-assistant](https://github.com/frenck/awesome-home-assistant): A curated list of amazingly awesome Home Assistant resources. <https://awesome-ha.com>
- [binwiederhier/ntfy](https://github.com/binwiederhier/ntfy): Send push notifications to your phone or desktop using PUT/POST <https://ntfy.sh>
- [unpoller/unpoller](https://github.com/unpoller/unpoller): Application: Collect ALL UniFi Controller, Site, Device & Client Data - Export to InfluxDB or Prometheus <https://unpoller.com>
- [thunder439/QNASMINI](https://github.com/thunder439/QNASMINI): QNAS MINI 是 6 盘位 2.5 寸 NAS
- [workerforce/unifi-ddns](https://github.com/workerforce/unifi-ddns): Cloudflare DDNS (Dynamic DNS) support for UniFi OS <https://workerforce.github.io/unifi-ddns/>
- [adriankumpf/teslamate](https://github.com/adriankumpf/teslamate): A self-hosted data logger for your Tesla 🚘 <https://docs.teslamate.org>

## Misc

- [llwslc/grammar-club](https://github.com/llwslc/grammar-club): 《语法俱乐部》- 旋元佑 <https://llwslc.github.io/grammar-club>
- [Kaiyiwing/qwerty-learner](https://github.com/Kaiyiwing/qwerty-learner): 为键盘工作者设计的单词记忆与英语肌肉记忆锻炼软件 / Words learning and English muscle memory training software designed for keyboard workers <https://qwerty.kaiyi.cool>
- [zhaoolee/ins](https://github.com/zhaoolee/ins): 🍭 互联网从业者的灵感数据库，无广告，Github Actions 自动检测网站访问速度
- 🌟 [nusr/hacker-laws-zh](https://github.com/nusr/hacker-laws-zh): 💻📖 对开发人员有用的定律、理论、原则和模式。(Laws, Theories, Principles and Patterns that developers will find useful.)
- [LawRefBook/Laws](https://github.com/LawRefBook/Laws)
- [TapXWorld/ChinaTextbook](https://github.com/TapXWorld/ChinaTextbook): 人教版小学到大学数学
- [public-apis/public-apis](https://github.com/public-apis/public-apis): A collective list of free APIs <http://public-apis.org>
- 🌟 [djyde/notepal](https://github.com/djyde/notepal): A simple tool to import/export your book note <https://notepal.randysoft.org>
  - export WeBook to Readwise
- [LC044/WeChatMsg](https://github.com/LC044/WeChatMsg): 提取微信聊天记录，将其导出成 HTML、Word、CSV 文档永久保存，对聊天记录进行分析生成年度聊天报告
- 🌟 [sparanoid/chinese-copywriting-guidelines](https://github.com/sparanoid/chinese-copywriting-guidelines): Chinese copywriting guidelines for better written communication／中文文案排版指北
- [ruanyf/weekly](https://github.com/ruanyf/weekly): 科技爱好者周刊，每周五发布
- [facebookresearch/personal-timeline](https://github.com/facebookresearch/personal-timeline): A public release of TimelineBuilder for building personal digital data timelines.
- [ USTC Hackergame ](https://github.com/USTC-Hackergame)
- [lizongying/my-tv](https://github.com/lizongying/my-tv): 我的电视 电视直播软件，安装即可使用 <https://lyrics.run/my-tv.html>

## Branding

- [nedbat/dinghy](https://github.com/nedbat/dinghy): A GitHub activity digest tool
- [anuraghazra/github-readme-stats](https://github.com/anuraghazra/github-readme-stats): ⚡ Dynamically generated stats for your github readmes <https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app>
- [sinaatalay/rendercv](https://github.com/sinaatalay/rendercv): LaTeX CV generator from a YAML/JSON input file. <https://sinaatalay.github.io/rendercv/>
- 🌟 [BartoszJarocki/cv](https://github.com/BartoszJarocki/cv): Print-friendly, minimalist CV page <https://cv.jarocki.me>

## ESL

- [shimohq/chinese-programmer-wrong-pronunciation](https://github.com/shimohq/chinese-programmer-wrong-pronunciation): 中国程序员容易发音错误的单词 <https://cpwp.netlify.app>
- [yujiangshui/A-Programmers-Guide-to-English](https://github.com/yujiangshui/A-Programmers-Guide-to-English): 专为程序员编写的英语学习指南 v1.2 <https://a-programmers-guide-to-english.harryyu.me>
- [hehonghui/awesome-english-ebooks](https://github.com/hehonghui/awesome-english-ebooks): 经济学人(含音频)、纽约客、卫报、连线、大西洋月刊等英语杂志免费下载,支持 epub、mobi、pdf 格式, 每周更新
- [2ndLA/English](https://github.com/2ndLA/English): 🚧 [WIP] 全面、渐进、碎片化的英语自学指引。 <https://english.highlight.ink>
- [xiaolai/everyone-can-use-english](https://github.com/xiaolai/everyone-can-use-english): 人人都能用英语

## Security / Privacy

- [undergroundwires/privacy.sexy](https://github.com/undergroundwires/privacy.sexy): Open-source tool to enforce privacy & security best-practices on Windows and macOS, because privacy is sexy 🍑🍆 <https://privacy.sexy>
- [privacytoolsIO/privacy-tools](https://github.com/privacytoolsIO/privacy-tools): Suggestions and Discussions for PrivacyTools.io <https://www.privacytools.io>
- [privacyguides/privacyguides.org](https://github.com/privacyguides/privacyguides.org): Protect your data against global mass surveillance programs. <https://www.privacyguides.org>
- [/e/ Foundation](https://e.foundation/e-os/): /e/OS is a complete, fully “deGoogled”, mobile ecosystem
- [imthenachoman/How-To-Secure-A-Linux-Server](https://github.com/imthenachoman/How-To-Secure-A-Linux-Server): An evolving how-to guide for securing a Linux server.
- [Email Self-Defense](https://emailselfdefense.fsf.org)
- [danielmiessler/SecLists](https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists): SecLists is the security tester's companion. It's a collection of multiple types of lists used during security assessments, collected in one place. List types include usernames, passwords, URLs, sensitive data patterns, fuzzing payloads, web shells, and many more. <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Internet_of_Things_Project>
- [rfc-st/humble](https://github.com/rfc-st/humble): A humble, and fast!, security-oriented HTTP headers analyzer. <https://github.com/rfc-st/humble>

## Open Source Software: State, Progress and Future

- [premAI-io/state-of-open-source-ai](https://github.com/premAI-io/state-of-open-source-ai): Clarity in the current fast-paced mess of Open Source innovation <https://book.premai.io/state-of-open-source-ai>
- [pi0/tired-maintainer](https://github.com/pi0/tired-maintainer): 🗒️ Notes from a tired maintainer
