hacker-life/network.md, before:

# Network

## Resources

### Books

- [Uncurled](https://un.curl.dev): everything I know and learned about running and maintaining Open Source projects for three decades.
- 🌟 [bagder/http3-explained](https://github.com/bagder/http3-explained): A document describing the HTTP/3 and QUIC protocols <https://http3-explained.haxx.se>
- [beejjorgensen/bgnet](https://github.com/beejjorgensen/bgnet): Beej's Guide to Network Programming source <https://beej.us/guide/bgnet/html> <https://beej-zhtw-gitbook.netdpi.net>
- 🌟 [Lord of the io_uring](https://unixism.net/loti/): Welcome to Lord of the io_uring
- [syncsynchalt/illustrated-quic](https://github.com/syncsynchalt/illustrated-quic): The Illustrated QUIC Connection: Every byte explained <https://quic.xargs.org>
  - [cangSDARM/illustrate](https://github.com/cangSDARM/illustrate): illustrate QUIC, TLS 1.2, TLS 1.3, DTLS 中文翻译 <https://cangsdarm.github.io/illustrate/>

### Readings

- [https-dev/docs](https://github.com/https-dev/docs/blob/master/list-of-acme-servers.md): List of ACME Servers
- [clowwindy/Awesome-Networking](https://github.com/clowwindy/Awesome-Networking): A curated list of awesome networking libraries, resources and shiny things
- [See this page fetch itself, byte by byte, over TLS](https://subtls.pages.dev/)
- [riba2534/TCP-IP-NetworkNote](https://github.com/riba2534/TCP-IP-NetworkNote): 📘《TCP/IP 网络编程》(韩-尹圣雨)学习笔记
- 🌟🌟🌟 [carlospolop/hacktricks](https://github.com/carlospolop/hacktricks): Welcome to the page where you will find each trick/technique/whatever I have learnt in CTFs, real life apps, and reading researches and news. <http://book.hacktricks.xyz/>
- [networktocode/awesome-network-automation](https://github.com/networktocode/awesome-network-automation): Curated Awesome list about Network Automation
- [espoal/awesome-iouring](https://github.com/espoal/awesome-iouring): Delightful io_uring packages and resources

## Libraries

- [cloudflare/boringtun](https://github.com/cloudflare/boringtun): Userspace WireGuard® Implementation in Rust
- 🌟 [the-tcpdump-group/libpcap](https://github.com/the-tcpdump-group/libpcap): the LIBpcap interface to various kernel packet capture mechanism <https://www.tcpdump.org>
- [microsoft/snocat](https://github.com/microsoft/snocat): Streaming Network Overlay Connection Arbitration Tunnel
- [libpnet/libpnet](https://github.com/libpnet/libpnet): Cross-platform, low level networking using the Rust programming language.
- [DPDK/dpdk](https://github.com/DPDK/dpdk): Data Plane Development Kit
- [real-logic/aeron](https://github.com/real-logic/aeron): Efficient reliable UDP unicast, UDP multicast, and IPC message transport
- 🌟 [quinn-rs/quinn](https://github.com/quinn-rs/quinn): Async-friendly QUIC implementation in Rust
- [cloudflare/quiche](https://github.com/cloudflare/quiche): 🥧 Savoury implementation of the QUIC transport protocol and HTTP/3 <https://docs.quic.tech/quiche/>
- [google/quiche](https://github.com/google/quiche): QUICHE stands for QUIC, Http, Etc. It is Google's production-ready implementation of QUIC, HTTP/2, HTTP/3, and related protocols and tools. It powers Google's servers, Chromium, Envoy, and other projects. It is actively developed and maintained.
- [litespeedtech/lsquic](https://github.com/litespeedtech/lsquic): LiteSpeed QUIC and HTTP/3 Library

## Tools

- 🌟 [mitmproxy/mitmproxy](https://github.com/mitmproxy/mitmproxy): An interactive TLS-capable intercepting HTTP proxy for penetration testers and software developers. <https://mitmproxy.org>
- 🌟 [gojue/ecapture](https://github.com/gojue/ecapture): capture SSL/TLS text content without CA cert using eBPF. supports Linux/Android x86_64/Aarch64. <https://ecapture.cc>
- [bettercap/bettercap](https://github.com/bettercap/bettercap): The Swiss Army knife for 802.11, BLE, IPv4 and IPv6 networks reconnaissance and MITM attacks. <https://www.bettercap.org>
- [fullstorydev/grpcurl](https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl): Like cURL, but for gRPC: Command-line tool for interacting with gRPC servers
- [secdev/scapy](https://github.com/secdev/scapy): Scapy: the Python-based interactive packet manipulation program & library. Supports Python 2 & Python 3. <https://scapy.net>
- [beyondcode/expose](https://github.com/beyondcode/expose): A beautiful, fully open-source, tunneling service - written in pure PHP <https://expose.dev>
- [traviscross/mtr](https://github.com/traviscross/mtr): Official repository for mtr, a network diagnostic tool <http://www.bitwizard.nl/mtr>
- [GyulyVGC/sniffnet](https://github.com/GyulyVGC/sniffnet): Cross-platform application to monitor your network traffic with ease
- 🌟 [netsniff-ng/netsniff-ng](https://github.com/netsniff-ng/netsniff-ng): A Swiss army knife for your daily Linux network plumbing. <http://netsniff-ng.org>
- 🌟 [the-tcpdump-group/tcpdump](https://github.com/the-tcpdump-group/tcpdump): the TCPdump network dissector <https://www.tcpdump.org>
- [droe/sslsplit](https://github.com/droe/sslsplit): Transparent SSL/TLS interception <https://www.roe.ch/SSLsplit>
- [ktbyers/netmiko](https://github.com/ktbyers/netmiko): Multi-vendor library to simplify Paramiko SSH connections to network devices
- [paramiko/paramiko](https://github.com/paramiko/paramiko): The leading native Python SSHv2 protocol library. <http://paramiko.org>
- [vergoh/vnstat](https://github.com/vergoh/vnstat): vnStat - a network traffic monitor for Linux and BSD
- [Zoxc/crusader](https://github.com/Zoxc/crusader): A network bandwidth and latency tester.
- [Mellanox/sockperf](https://github.com/Mellanox/sockperf): Network Benchmarking Utility
- [allinurl/goaccess](https://github.com/allinurl/goaccess): GoAccess is a real-time web log analyzer and interactive viewer that runs in a terminal in \*nix systems or through your browser. <https://goaccess.io>
- [kevwan/tproxy](https://github.com/kevwan/tproxy): A cli tool to proxy and analyze TCP connections. <https://go-zero.dev>
- 🌟 [fujiapple852/trippy](https://github.com/fujiapple852/trippy): A network diagnostic tool <https://trippy.cli.rs>
- [Exa-Networks/exabgp](https://github.com/Exa-Networks/exabgp): The BGP swiss army knife of networking

### Analysis

- [nfstream/nfstream](https://github.com/nfstream/nfstream): NFStream: a Flexible Network Data Analysis Framework. <https://www.nfstream.org>
- [jpr5/ngrep](https://github.com/jpr5/ngrep): ngrep is like GNU grep applied to the network layer. It's a PCAP-based tool that allows you to specify an extended regular or hexadecimal expression to match against data payloads of packets. It understands many kinds of protocols, including IPv4/6, TCP, UDP, ICMPv4/6, IGMP and Raw, across a wide variety of interface types, and understands BPF f… <https://github.com/jpr5/ngrep>

### Observability

- [netenglabs/suzieq](https://github.com/netenglabs/suzieq): Using network observability to operate and design healthier networks <https://www.stardustsystems.net/suzieq>
- [batfish/batfish](https://github.com/batfish/batfish): Batfish is a network configuration analysis tool that can find bugs and guarantee the correctness of (planned or current) network configurations. It enables network engineers to rapidly and safely evolve their network, without fear of outages or security breaches. <http://www.batfish.org>
- [ivre/ivre](https://github.com/ivre/ivre): Network recon framework. Build your own, self-hosted and fully-controlled alternatives to Shodan / ZoomEye / Censys and GreyNoise, run your Passive DNS service, collect and analyse network intelligence from your sensors, and much more! <>
- [ntop/ntopng](https://github.com/ntop/ntopng): Web-based Traffic and Security Network Traffic Monitoring <http://www.ntop.org>
- 🌟 [akvorado/akvorado](https://github.com/akvorado/akvorado): Flow collector, enricher and visualizer <https://demo.akvorado.net>

### RouterOS Automation?

- [napalm-automation/napalm](https://github.com/napalm-automation/napalm): Network Automation and Programmability Abstraction Layer with Multivendor support <https://napalm.readthedocs.io>
- [nornir-automation/nornir](https://github.com/nornir-automation/nornir): Pluggable multi-threaded framework with inventory management to help operate collections of devices <https://nornir.readthedocs.io>

## Proxy

- [mingcheng/socks5lb](https://github.com/mingcheng/socks5lb): A simple socks5 proxy load balance and transparent proxy
- [microsoft/reverse-proxy](https://github.com/microsoft/reverse-proxy): A toolkit for developing high-performance HTTP reverse proxy applications. <https://microsoft.github.io/reverse-proxy>
- [googleforgames/quilkin](https://github.com/googleforgames/quilkin): Quilkin is a non-transparent UDP proxy specifically designed for use with large scale multiplayer dedicated game server deployments, to ensure security, access control, telemetry data, metrics and more.
- [nadoo/glider](https://github.com/nadoo/glider): glider is a forward proxy with multiple protocols support, and also a dns/dhcp server with ipset management features(like dnsmasq).
- [OwO-Network/nexttrace-enhanced](https://github.com/OwO-Network/nexttrace-enhanced): An open source visual route tracking CLI tool (Enhanced Edition)
- [sjlleo/nexttrace](https://github.com/sjlleo/nexttrace): An open source visual route tracking CLI tool <https://trace.ac>
- [patte/fly-tailscale-exit](https://github.com/patte/fly-tailscale-exit): Run a VPN with global exit nodes with fly.io, tailscale and github! <https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36064305>
- [daeuniverse/dae](https://github.com/daeuniverse/dae): A Linux high-performance transparent proxy solution based on eBPF.
- [salarcode/SmartProxy](https://github.com/salarcode/SmartProxy): Firefox/Chrome browser extension. SmartProxy will automatically enable/disable proxy for the sites you visit, based on customizable patterns. <https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/smartproxy/>
- [sigoden/proxyfor](https://github.com/sigoden/proxyfor): A lightweight proxy for capturing HTTP(S) and WS(S) traffic.

## DNS

- [serverless-dns/serverless-dns](https://github.com/serverless-dns/serverless-dns): The RethinkDNS resolver that deploys to Cloudflare Workers, Deno Deploy, and Fly.io <https://rethinkdns.com/configure>
- [bluejekyll/trust-dns](https://github.com/bluejekyll/trust-dns): A Rust based DNS client, server, and resolver
- [exentriquesolutions/nip.io](https://github.com/exentriquesolutions/nip.io): Dead simple wildcard DNS for any IP Address. <https://nip.io>
  - <https://sslip.io>: `sslip.io` is a DNS service that, when queried with a hostname with an embedded IP address, returns that IP address.
  - <https://local.gd>: The easiest way to serve localhost. DNS that always resolves to 127.0.0.1.
- [Corollarium/localtls](https://github.com/Corollarium/localtls): DNS server for providing TLS to webservices on local addresses
- [ogham/dog](https://github.com/ogham/dog): A command-line DNS client. <https://dns.lookup.dog>
- [zu1k/nali](https://github.com/zu1k/nali): An offline tool for querying IP geographic information and CDN provider. 一个查询 IP 地理信息和 CDN 服务提供商的离线终端工具. <https://github.com/zu1k/nali>
- [devanshbatham/DNSleuth](https://github.com/devanshbatham/DNSleuth): DNSleuth sniffs DNS packets, i.e, allowing you to spy on the DNS queries your machine is making
- [felixonmars/dnsmasq-china-list](https://github.com/felixonmars/dnsmasq-china-list): Chinese-specific configuration to improve your favorite DNS server. Best partner for chnroutes.
- [pymumu/smartdns](https://github.com/pymumu/smartdns): A local DNS server to obtain the fastest website IP for the best Internet experience，一个本地 DNS 服务器，获取最快的网站 IP，获得最佳上网体验。
- [IrineSistiana/mosdns](https://github.com/IrineSistiana/mosdns): 一个 DNS 转发器
- [errantmind/faf-dns-proxy](https://github.com/errantmind/faf-dns-proxy): A DNS-over-TLS (DoT) Proxy, Engineered for Speed

## Tunnel

- [anderspitman/awesome-tunneling](https://github.com/anderspitman/awesome-tunneling): List of ngrok alternatives and other ngrok-like tunneling software and services. Focus on self-hosting.
- [openziti/zrok](https://github.com/openziti/zrok): Geo-scale, next-generation sharing platform built on top of OpenZiti. <https://zrok.io>
- [ekzhang/bore](https://github.com/ekzhang/bore): 🕳 bore is a simple CLI tool for making tunnels to localhost <http://bore.pub>
- [pgrok/pgrok](https://github.com/pgrok/pgrok): Poor man's ngrok - a multi-tenant HTTP reverse tunnel solution through SSH remote port forwarding
- [rapiz1/rathole](https://github.com/rapiz1/rathole): A lightweight and high-performance reverse proxy for NAT traversal, written in Rust. An alternative to frp and ngrok.
- [rosenpass/rosenpass](https://github.com/rosenpass/rosenpass): Rosenpass is a formally verified, post-quantum secure VPN that uses WireGuard to transport the actual data. <https://rosenpass.eu/>
- [ghostunnel/ghostunnel](https://github.com/ghostunnel/ghostunnel): A simple SSL/TLS proxy with mutual authentication for securing non-TLS services.
- [PurpleI2P/i2pd](https://github.com/PurpleI2P/i2pd): 🛡 I2P: End-to-End encrypted and anonymous Internet <https://i2pd.website>

### Mesh network

- [ntop/n2n](https://github.com/ntop/n2n): Peer-to-peer VPN
- [slackhq/nebula](https://github.com/slackhq/nebula): A scalable overlay networking tool with a focus on performance, simplicity and security
- 🌟 [tailscale/tailscale](https://github.com/tailscale/tailscale): The easiest, most secure way to use WireGuard and 2FA. <https://tailscale.com>
  - [tailscale/golink](https://github.com/tailscale/golink): A private shortlink service for tailnets
  - [juanfont/headscale](https://github.com/juanfont/headscale): An open source, self-hosted implementation of the Tailscale control server
  - [gurucomputing/headscale-ui](https://github.com/gurucomputing/headscale-ui): A web frontend for the headscale Tailscale-compatible coordination server
- 🌟 [gravitl/netmaker](https://github.com/gravitl/netmaker): Netmaker makes networks with WireGuard. Netmaker automates fast, secure, and distributed virtual networks. <https://netmaker.io>
  - [madacluster/netmaker-terraform-provider](https://github.com/madacluster/netmaker-terraform-provider): Terraform Provider Netmaker
- 🌟 [firezone/firezone](https://github.com/firezone/firezone): WireGuard®-based VPN server and firewall <https://firezone.dev>
- [k4yt3x/wg-meshconf](https://github.com/k4yt3x/wg-meshconf): WireGuard full mesh configuration generator.
- Seems good, but they use a custom client cli, which wouldn't be my choice, at least.
  - [netbirdio/netbird](https://github.com/netbirdio/netbird): Connect your devices into a single secure private WireGuard®-based mesh network with SSO/MFA and simple access controls. <https://netbird.io>
  - [tonarino/innernet](https://github.com/tonarino/innernet): A private network system that uses WireGuard under the hood. <https://blog.tonari.no/introducing-innernet>
- [zerotier/ZeroTierOne](https://github.com/zerotier/ZeroTierOne): A Smart Ethernet Switch for Earth <https://zerotier.com>
- [Twingate](https://www.twingate.com/): Twingate makes Zero Trust Network Access easy to deploy, even easier to use, and always secure.
- [openconnect/ocserv](https://gitlab.com/openconnect/ocserv): Engine for secure and scalable VPN infrastructure https://ocserv.gitlab.io/www/
  - [iw4p/OpenConnect-Cisco-AnyConnect-VPN-Server-OneKey-ocserv](https://github.com/iw4p/OpenConnect-Cisco-AnyConnect-VPN-Server-OneKey-ocserv): [Script and Docker 🐳] OpenConnect (Cisco AnyConnect) VPN Server (OCServ) script one key easy configurator and installer
- [trailofbits/algo](https://github.com/trailofbits/algo): Set up a personal VPN in the cloud <https://blog.trailofbits.com/2016/12/12/meet-algo-the-vpn-that-works/>

## Online tools / Services

- [Censys](https://search.censys.io)
- [ipinfo.io](https://ipinfo.io)
- [Is using HTTP3?](https://http3.is)
- [HTTP/3 Check](https://http3check.net)
- [IPLeak.net](https://ipleak.net)
- [DSN leak test](https://www.dnsleaktest.com/):
- [Globalping](https://www.jsdelivr.com/globalping)
- 🌟 [Web Check](https://web-check.xyz/)
  - [Lissy93/web-check](https://github.com/Lissy93/web-check): 🕵️‍♂️ All-in-one OSINT tool for analysing any website
- [KeyCDN tools](https://tools.keycdn.com)
- [Tabserve](https://tabserve.dev/): A secure & fast HTTPS URL for localhost using your browser as a reverse proxy.
- [domain.glass](https://domain.glass/): DNS / WHOIS Lookup
- [IPADDRESS.COM](https://www.ipaddress.com/)
- [Pinggy](https://pinggy.io/): Public URLs for Localhost. Without downloading any binary!
- [Netify](https://www.netify.ai/): Network Intelligence - Simplified. Netify provides full transparency into what’s happening on the network. Local deep packet network monitoring coupled with cloud-based analytics to deliver exceptional, business-driven results.
- [IP Guide](https://ip.guide/): Your guide to internet numbers
  - `curl -sL ip.guide`
- [jason5ng32/MyIP](https://github.com/jason5ng32/MyIP): A better IP Toolbox. Easy to check what's your IPs, IP informations, check for DNS leaks, examine WebRTC connections, speed test, and test website availability. || 🇨🇳 一个更好的 IP 工具箱。可以查看 IP、IP 信息（代理前后）、检查 DNS 泄露、检查 WebRTC 连接、网速测试、测试网站可用性等。 <https://ipcheck.ing>
- [Cloudflare Speed Test](https://speed.cloudflare.com/)
- [Fast](https://fast.com/)
- [Skk IP Test](https://ip.skk.moe/)
- [IP.SB](https://ip.sb/)
- https://www.islegitsite.com/
- https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/
- https://www.cloudflare.com/ssl/encrypted-sni/
- https://ipcheck.ing/
- [BrowserScan](https://www.browserscan.net/)
- 🌟 [hackclub/how-did-i-get-here](https://github.com/hackclub/how-did-i-get-here): A tool/website/article by @kognise about how routing on the Internet works. <https://how-did-i-get-here.net>

Commit message:

Add static-curl, blammo, log and composer

hacker-life/network.md, after:

# Network

## Resources

### Books

- [Uncurled](https://un.curl.dev): everything I know and learned about running and maintaining Open Source projects for three decades.
- 🌟 [bagder/http3-explained](https://github.com/bagder/http3-explained): A document describing the HTTP/3 and QUIC protocols <https://http3-explained.haxx.se>
- [beejjorgensen/bgnet](https://github.com/beejjorgensen/bgnet): Beej's Guide to Network Programming source <https://beej.us/guide/bgnet/html> <https://beej-zhtw-gitbook.netdpi.net>
- 🌟 [Lord of the io_uring](https://unixism.net/loti/): Welcome to Lord of the io_uring
- [syncsynchalt/illustrated-quic](https://github.com/syncsynchalt/illustrated-quic): The Illustrated QUIC Connection: Every byte explained <https://quic.xargs.org>
  - [cangSDARM/illustrate](https://github.com/cangSDARM/illustrate): illustrate QUIC, TLS 1.2, TLS 1.3, DTLS 中文翻译 <https://cangsdarm.github.io/illustrate/>

### Readings

- [https-dev/docs](https://github.com/https-dev/docs/blob/master/list-of-acme-servers.md): List of ACME Servers
- [clowwindy/Awesome-Networking](https://github.com/clowwindy/Awesome-Networking): A curated list of awesome networking libraries, resources and shiny things
- [See this page fetch itself, byte by byte, over TLS](https://subtls.pages.dev/)
- [riba2534/TCP-IP-NetworkNote](https://github.com/riba2534/TCP-IP-NetworkNote): 📘《TCP/IP 网络编程》(韩-尹圣雨)学习笔记
- 🌟🌟🌟 [carlospolop/hacktricks](https://github.com/carlospolop/hacktricks): Welcome to the page where you will find each trick/technique/whatever I have learnt in CTFs, real life apps, and reading researches and news. <http://book.hacktricks.xyz/>
- [networktocode/awesome-network-automation](https://github.com/networktocode/awesome-network-automation): Curated Awesome list about Network Automation
- [espoal/awesome-iouring](https://github.com/espoal/awesome-iouring): Delightful io_uring packages and resources

## Libraries

- [cloudflare/boringtun](https://github.com/cloudflare/boringtun): Userspace WireGuard® Implementation in Rust
- 🌟 [the-tcpdump-group/libpcap](https://github.com/the-tcpdump-group/libpcap): the LIBpcap interface to various kernel packet capture mechanism <https://www.tcpdump.org>
- [microsoft/snocat](https://github.com/microsoft/snocat): Streaming Network Overlay Connection Arbitration Tunnel
- [libpnet/libpnet](https://github.com/libpnet/libpnet): Cross-platform, low level networking using the Rust programming language.
- [DPDK/dpdk](https://github.com/DPDK/dpdk): Data Plane Development Kit
- [real-logic/aeron](https://github.com/real-logic/aeron): Efficient reliable UDP unicast, UDP multicast, and IPC message transport
- 🌟 [quinn-rs/quinn](https://github.com/quinn-rs/quinn): Async-friendly QUIC implementation in Rust
- [cloudflare/quiche](https://github.com/cloudflare/quiche): 🥧 Savoury implementation of the QUIC transport protocol and HTTP/3 <https://docs.quic.tech/quiche/>
- [google/quiche](https://github.com/google/quiche): QUICHE stands for QUIC, Http, Etc. It is Google's production-ready implementation of QUIC, HTTP/2, HTTP/3, and related protocols and tools. It powers Google's servers, Chromium, Envoy, and other projects. It is actively developed and maintained.
- [litespeedtech/lsquic](https://github.com/litespeedtech/lsquic): LiteSpeed QUIC and HTTP/3 Library

## Tools

- 🌟 [mitmproxy/mitmproxy](https://github.com/mitmproxy/mitmproxy): An interactive TLS-capable intercepting HTTP proxy for penetration testers and software developers. <https://mitmproxy.org>
- 🌟 [gojue/ecapture](https://github.com/gojue/ecapture): capture SSL/TLS text content without CA cert using eBPF. supports Linux/Android x86_64/Aarch64. <https://ecapture.cc>
- [bettercap/bettercap](https://github.com/bettercap/bettercap): The Swiss Army knife for 802.11, BLE, IPv4 and IPv6 networks reconnaissance and MITM attacks. <https://www.bettercap.org>
- [fullstorydev/grpcurl](https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl): Like cURL, but for gRPC: Command-line tool for interacting with gRPC servers
- [secdev/scapy](https://github.com/secdev/scapy): Scapy: the Python-based interactive packet manipulation program & library. Supports Python 2 & Python 3. <https://scapy.net>
- [beyondcode/expose](https://github.com/beyondcode/expose): A beautiful, fully open-source, tunneling service - written in pure PHP <https://expose.dev>
- [traviscross/mtr](https://github.com/traviscross/mtr): Official repository for mtr, a network diagnostic tool <http://www.bitwizard.nl/mtr>
- [GyulyVGC/sniffnet](https://github.com/GyulyVGC/sniffnet): Cross-platform application to monitor your network traffic with ease
- 🌟 [netsniff-ng/netsniff-ng](https://github.com/netsniff-ng/netsniff-ng): A Swiss army knife for your daily Linux network plumbing. <http://netsniff-ng.org>
- 🌟 [the-tcpdump-group/tcpdump](https://github.com/the-tcpdump-group/tcpdump): the TCPdump network dissector <https://www.tcpdump.org>
- [droe/sslsplit](https://github.com/droe/sslsplit): Transparent SSL/TLS interception <https://www.roe.ch/SSLsplit>
- [ktbyers/netmiko](https://github.com/ktbyers/netmiko): Multi-vendor library to simplify Paramiko SSH connections to network devices
- [paramiko/paramiko](https://github.com/paramiko/paramiko): The leading native Python SSHv2 protocol library. <http://paramiko.org>
- [vergoh/vnstat](https://github.com/vergoh/vnstat): vnStat - a network traffic monitor for Linux and BSD
- [Zoxc/crusader](https://github.com/Zoxc/crusader): A network bandwidth and latency tester.
- [Mellanox/sockperf](https://github.com/Mellanox/sockperf): Network Benchmarking Utility
- [allinurl/goaccess](https://github.com/allinurl/goaccess): GoAccess is a real-time web log analyzer and interactive viewer that runs in a terminal in \*nix systems or through your browser. <https://goaccess.io>
- [kevwan/tproxy](https://github.com/kevwan/tproxy): A cli tool to proxy and analyze TCP connections. <https://go-zero.dev>
- 🌟 [fujiapple852/trippy](https://github.com/fujiapple852/trippy): A network diagnostic tool <https://trippy.cli.rs>
- [Exa-Networks/exabgp](https://github.com/Exa-Networks/exabgp): The BGP swiss army knife of networking
- [stunnel/static-curl](https://github.com/stunnel/static-curl): static builds cURL with HTTP3

### Analysis

- [nfstream/nfstream](https://github.com/nfstream/nfstream): NFStream: a Flexible Network Data Analysis Framework. <https://www.nfstream.org>
- [jpr5/ngrep](https://github.com/jpr5/ngrep): ngrep is like GNU grep applied to the network layer. It's a PCAP-based tool that allows you to specify an extended regular or hexadecimal expression to match against data payloads of packets. It understands many kinds of protocols, including IPv4/6, TCP, UDP, ICMPv4/6, IGMP and Raw, across a wide variety of interface types, and understands BPF f… <https://github.com/jpr5/ngrep>

### Observability

- [netenglabs/suzieq](https://github.com/netenglabs/suzieq): Using network observability to operate and design healthier networks <https://www.stardustsystems.net/suzieq>
- [batfish/batfish](https://github.com/batfish/batfish): Batfish is a network configuration analysis tool that can find bugs and guarantee the correctness of (planned or current) network configurations. It enables network engineers to rapidly and safely evolve their network, without fear of outages or security breaches. <http://www.batfish.org>
- [ivre/ivre](https://github.com/ivre/ivre): Network recon framework. Build your own, self-hosted and fully-controlled alternatives to Shodan / ZoomEye / Censys and GreyNoise, run your Passive DNS service, collect and analyse network intelligence from your sensors, and much more! <>
- [ntop/ntopng](https://github.com/ntop/ntopng): Web-based Traffic and Security Network Traffic Monitoring <http://www.ntop.org>
- 🌟 [akvorado/akvorado](https://github.com/akvorado/akvorado): Flow collector, enricher and visualizer <https://demo.akvorado.net>

### RouterOS Automation?

- [napalm-automation/napalm](https://github.com/napalm-automation/napalm): Network Automation and Programmability Abstraction Layer with Multivendor support <https://napalm.readthedocs.io>
- [nornir-automation/nornir](https://github.com/nornir-automation/nornir): Pluggable multi-threaded framework with inventory management to help operate collections of devices <https://nornir.readthedocs.io>

## Proxy

- [mingcheng/socks5lb](https://github.com/mingcheng/socks5lb): A simple socks5 proxy load balance and transparent proxy
- [microsoft/reverse-proxy](https://github.com/microsoft/reverse-proxy): A toolkit for developing high-performance HTTP reverse proxy applications. <https://microsoft.github.io/reverse-proxy>
- [googleforgames/quilkin](https://github.com/googleforgames/quilkin): Quilkin is a non-transparent UDP proxy specifically designed for use with large scale multiplayer dedicated game server deployments, to ensure security, access control, telemetry data, metrics and more.
- [nadoo/glider](https://github.com/nadoo/glider): glider is a forward proxy with multiple protocols support, and also a dns/dhcp server with ipset management features(like dnsmasq).
- [OwO-Network/nexttrace-enhanced](https://github.com/OwO-Network/nexttrace-enhanced): An open source visual route tracking CLI tool (Enhanced Edition)
- [sjlleo/nexttrace](https://github.com/sjlleo/nexttrace): An open source visual route tracking CLI tool <https://trace.ac>
- [patte/fly-tailscale-exit](https://github.com/patte/fly-tailscale-exit): Run a VPN with global exit nodes with fly.io, tailscale and github! <https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36064305>
- [daeuniverse/dae](https://github.com/daeuniverse/dae): A Linux high-performance transparent proxy solution based on eBPF.
- [salarcode/SmartProxy](https://github.com/salarcode/SmartProxy): Firefox/Chrome browser extension. SmartProxy will automatically enable/disable proxy for the sites you visit, based on customizable patterns. <https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/smartproxy/>
- [sigoden/proxyfor](https://github.com/sigoden/proxyfor): A lightweight proxy for capturing HTTP(S) and WS(S) traffic.

## DNS

- [serverless-dns/serverless-dns](https://github.com/serverless-dns/serverless-dns): The RethinkDNS resolver that deploys to Cloudflare Workers, Deno Deploy, and Fly.io <https://rethinkdns.com/configure>
- [bluejekyll/trust-dns](https://github.com/bluejekyll/trust-dns): A Rust based DNS client, server, and resolver
- [exentriquesolutions/nip.io](https://github.com/exentriquesolutions/nip.io): Dead simple wildcard DNS for any IP Address. <https://nip.io>
  - <https://sslip.io>: `sslip.io` is a DNS service that, when queried with a hostname with an embedded IP address, returns that IP address.
  - <https://local.gd>: The easiest way to serve localhost. DNS that always resolves to 127.0.0.1.
- [Corollarium/localtls](https://github.com/Corollarium/localtls): DNS server for providing TLS to webservices on local addresses
- [ogham/dog](https://github.com/ogham/dog): A command-line DNS client. <https://dns.lookup.dog>
- [zu1k/nali](https://github.com/zu1k/nali): An offline tool for querying IP geographic information and CDN provider. 一个查询 IP 地理信息和 CDN 服务提供商的离线终端工具. <https://github.com/zu1k/nali>
- [devanshbatham/DNSleuth](https://github.com/devanshbatham/DNSleuth): DNSleuth sniffs DNS packets, i.e, allowing you to spy on the DNS queries your machine is making
- [felixonmars/dnsmasq-china-list](https://github.com/felixonmars/dnsmasq-china-list): Chinese-specific configuration to improve your favorite DNS server. Best partner for chnroutes.
- [pymumu/smartdns](https://github.com/pymumu/smartdns): A local DNS server to obtain the fastest website IP for the best Internet experience，一个本地 DNS 服务器，获取最快的网站 IP，获得最佳上网体验。
- [IrineSistiana/mosdns](https://github.com/IrineSistiana/mosdns): 一个 DNS 转发器
- [errantmind/faf-dns-proxy](https://github.com/errantmind/faf-dns-proxy): A DNS-over-TLS (DoT) Proxy, Engineered for Speed

## Tunnel

- [anderspitman/awesome-tunneling](https://github.com/anderspitman/awesome-tunneling): List of ngrok alternatives and other ngrok-like tunneling software and services. Focus on self-hosting.
- [openziti/zrok](https://github.com/openziti/zrok): Geo-scale, next-generation sharing platform built on top of OpenZiti. <https://zrok.io>
- [ekzhang/bore](https://github.com/ekzhang/bore): 🕳 bore is a simple CLI tool for making tunnels to localhost <http://bore.pub>
- [pgrok/pgrok](https://github.com/pgrok/pgrok): Poor man's ngrok - a multi-tenant HTTP reverse tunnel solution through SSH remote port forwarding
- [rapiz1/rathole](https://github.com/rapiz1/rathole): A lightweight and high-performance reverse proxy for NAT traversal, written in Rust. An alternative to frp and ngrok.
- [rosenpass/rosenpass](https://github.com/rosenpass/rosenpass): Rosenpass is a formally verified, post-quantum secure VPN that uses WireGuard to transport the actual data. <https://rosenpass.eu/>
- [ghostunnel/ghostunnel](https://github.com/ghostunnel/ghostunnel): A simple SSL/TLS proxy with mutual authentication for securing non-TLS services.
- [PurpleI2P/i2pd](https://github.com/PurpleI2P/i2pd): 🛡 I2P: End-to-End encrypted and anonymous Internet <https://i2pd.website>

### Mesh network

- [ntop/n2n](https://github.com/ntop/n2n): Peer-to-peer VPN
- [slackhq/nebula](https://github.com/slackhq/nebula): A scalable overlay networking tool with a focus on performance, simplicity and security
- 🌟 [tailscale/tailscale](https://github.com/tailscale/tailscale): The easiest, most secure way to use WireGuard and 2FA. <https://tailscale.com>
  - [tailscale/golink](https://github.com/tailscale/golink): A private shortlink service for tailnets
  - [juanfont/headscale](https://github.com/juanfont/headscale): An open source, self-hosted implementation of the Tailscale control server
  - [gurucomputing/headscale-ui](https://github.com/gurucomputing/headscale-ui): A web frontend for the headscale Tailscale-compatible coordination server
- 🌟 [gravitl/netmaker](https://github.com/gravitl/netmaker): Netmaker makes networks with WireGuard. Netmaker automates fast, secure, and distributed virtual networks. <https://netmaker.io>
  - [madacluster/netmaker-terraform-provider](https://github.com/madacluster/netmaker-terraform-provider): Terraform Provider Netmaker
- 🌟 [firezone/firezone](https://github.com/firezone/firezone): WireGuard®-based VPN server and firewall <https://firezone.dev>
- [k4yt3x/wg-meshconf](https://github.com/k4yt3x/wg-meshconf): WireGuard full mesh configuration generator.
- Seems good, but they use a custom client cli, which wouldn't be my choice, at least.
  - [netbirdio/netbird](https://github.com/netbirdio/netbird): Connect your devices into a single secure private WireGuard®-based mesh network with SSO/MFA and simple access controls. <https://netbird.io>
  - [tonarino/innernet](https://github.com/tonarino/innernet): A private network system that uses WireGuard under the hood. <https://blog.tonari.no/introducing-innernet>
- [zerotier/ZeroTierOne](https://github.com/zerotier/ZeroTierOne): A Smart Ethernet Switch for Earth <https://zerotier.com>
- [Twingate](https://www.twingate.com/): Twingate makes Zero Trust Network Access easy to deploy, even easier to use, and always secure.
- [gitlab - openconnect/ocserv](https://gitlab.com/openconnect/ocserv): Engine for secure and scalable VPN infrastructure https://ocserv.gitlab.io/www/
  - [iw4p/OpenConnect-Cisco-AnyConnect-VPN-Server-OneKey-ocserv](https://github.com/iw4p/OpenConnect-Cisco-AnyConnect-VPN-Server-OneKey-ocserv): [Script and Docker 🐳] OpenConnect (Cisco AnyConnect) VPN Server (OCServ) script one key easy configurator and installer
- [trailofbits/algo](https://github.com/trailofbits/algo): Set up a personal VPN in the cloud <https://blog.trailofbits.com/2016/12/12/meet-algo-the-vpn-that-works/>

## Online tools / Services

- [Censys](https://search.censys.io)
- [ipinfo.io](https://ipinfo.io)
- [Is using HTTP3?](https://http3.is)
- [HTTP/3 Check](https://http3check.net)
- [IPLeak.net](https://ipleak.net)
- [DSN leak test](https://www.dnsleaktest.com/):
- [Globalping](https://www.jsdelivr.com/globalping)
- 🌟 [Web Check](https://web-check.xyz/)
  - [Lissy93/web-check](https://github.com/Lissy93/web-check): 🕵️‍♂️ All-in-one OSINT tool for analysing any website
- [KeyCDN tools](https://tools.keycdn.com)
- [Tabserve](https://tabserve.dev/): A secure & fast HTTPS URL for localhost using your browser as a reverse proxy.
- [domain.glass](https://domain.glass/): DNS / WHOIS Lookup
- [IPADDRESS.COM](https://www.ipaddress.com/)
- [Pinggy](https://pinggy.io/): Public URLs for Localhost. Without downloading any binary!
- [Netify](https://www.netify.ai/): Network Intelligence - Simplified. Netify provides full transparency into what’s happening on the network. Local deep packet network monitoring coupled with cloud-based analytics to deliver exceptional, business-driven results.
- [IP Guide](https://ip.guide/): Your guide to internet numbers
  - `curl -sL ip.guide`
- [jason5ng32/MyIP](https://github.com/jason5ng32/MyIP): A better IP Toolbox. Easy to check what's your IPs, IP informations, check for DNS leaks, examine WebRTC connections, speed test, and test website availability. || 🇨🇳 一个更好的 IP 工具箱。可以查看 IP、IP 信息（代理前后）、检查 DNS 泄露、检查 WebRTC 连接、网速测试、测试网站可用性等。 <https://ipcheck.ing>
- [Cloudflare Speed Test](https://speed.cloudflare.com/)
- [Fast](https://fast.com/)
- [Skk IP Test](https://ip.skk.moe/)
- [IP.SB](https://ip.sb/)
- https://www.islegitsite.com/
- https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/
- https://www.cloudflare.com/ssl/encrypted-sni/
- https://ipcheck.ing/
- [BrowserScan](https://www.browserscan.net/)
- 🌟 [hackclub/how-did-i-get-here](https://github.com/hackclub/how-did-i-get-here): A tool/website/article by @kognise about how routing on the Internet works. <https://how-did-i-get-here.net>
