hacker-life/software.md, before:

# Software / Services

## Software

- [qarmin/czkawka](https://github.com/qarmin/czkawka): Multi functional app to
  find duplicates, empty folders, similar images etc.
- [spacedriveapp/spacedrive](https://github.com/spacedriveapp/spacedrive):
  Spacedrive is an open source cross-platform file explorer, powered by a
  virtual distributed filesystem written in Rust.
- [elkowar/eww](https://github.com/elkowar/eww): ElKowars wacky widgets
  <https://elkowar.github.io/eww>
- 🌟 [LanguageTool](https://languagetool.org): Instantly Enhance Your Writing
- [HandBrake/HandBrake](https://github.com/HandBrake/HandBrake): HandBrake is a
  open-source tool, built by volunteers, for converting video from nearly any
  format to a selection of modern, widely supported codecs.
  <https://handbrake.fr>
- [mifi/lossless-cut](https://github.com/mifi/lossless-cut): The swiss army
  knife of lossless video/audio editing <https://mifi.no/losslesscut>
- 🌟 [mltframework/shotcut](https://github.com/mltframework/shotcut):
  cross-platform (Qt), open-source (GPLv3) video editor
  <https://www.shotcut.org>
  - Open source alternative to Adode Pr
- [Inkdrop](https://www.inkdrop.app): Organizing your Markdown notes made
  simple.
- [ahrm/sioyek](https://github.com/ahrm/sioyek): Sioyek is a PDF viewer designed
  for reading research papers and technical books. <https://sioyek.info>
- [duplicati/duplicati](https://github.com/duplicati/duplicati): Store securely
  encrypted backups in the cloud!
- [Pixcall](https://pixcall.com): 助力个人和团队以更好的方式管理图片、视频、文档
  等数字资产
- [reacherhq/check-if-email-exists](https://github.com/reacherhq/check-if-email-exists):
  Check if an email address exists without sending any email, written in Rust.
  Comes with a ⚙️ HTTP backend. <https://reacher.email>
- [borgbackup/borg](https://github.com/borgbackup/borg): Deduplicating archiver
  with compression and authenticated encryption. <https://www.borgbackup.org>
- [syncthing/syncthing](https://github.com/syncthing/syncthing): Open Source
  Continuous File Synchronization <https://forum.syncthing.net>
- [input-leap/input-leap](https://github.com/input-leap/input-leap): Open-source
  KVM (switch) software
- [fireyy/caricare](https://github.com/fireyy/caricare): A simple cross-platform
  desktop application for S3-Compatible Object Storage. Built in Rust using
  egui.
- 🌟
  [yihong0618/bilingual_book_maker](https://github.com/yihong0618/bilingual_book_maker):
  Make bilingual epub books Using AI translate
- [bookfere/Ebook-Translator-Calibre-Plugin](https://github.com/bookfere/Ebook-Translator-Calibre-Plugin):
  A Calibre plugin to translate ebook into a specified language.
  <https://bookfere.com/post/1057.html>
- 🌟
  [immersive-translate/immersive-translate](https://github.com/immersive-translate/immersive-translate):
  Immersive Dual Web Page Translation Extension - 沉浸式双语网页翻译扩展
  <https://immersive-translate.owenyoung.com/>
- [DIYgod/RSSHub](https://github.com/DIYgod/RSSHub): 🍰 Everything is RSSible
  <https://docs.rsshub.app>
- [raphamorim/rio](https://github.com/raphamorim/rio): A hardware-accelerated
  GPU terminal emulator powered by WebGPU, focusing to run in desktops and
  browsers. <https://raphamorim.io/rio>
- [lollipopkit/flutter_server_box](https://github.com/lollipopkit/flutter_server_box):
  server status & toolbox app using Flutter

## macOS / iPadOS

### Open Source

- [dsully/macos-defaults](https://github.com/dsully/macos-defaults): A tool for
  managing macOS defaults declaratively via YAML files.
- [ravynsoft/ravynos](https://github.com/ravynsoft/ravynos): A BSD-based OS
  project that aims to provide an experience like and some compatibility with
  macOS (formerly known as airyxOS) <https://www.ravynos.com>
- [orbstack/orbstack](https://github.com/orbstack/orbstack): Fast, light, simple
  Docker containers & Linux machines for macOS <https://orbstack.dev>
- [lwouis/alt-tab-macos](https://github.com/lwouis/alt-tab-macos): Windows
  alt-tab on macOS <https://alt-tab-macos.netlify.app>
- [RobotsAndPencils/XcodesApp](https://github.com/RobotsAndPencils/XcodesApp):
  The easiest way to install and switch between multiple versions of Xcode -
  with a mouse click.
- [exelban/stats](https://github.com/exelban/stats): macOS system monitor in
  your menu bar
- [thebaselab/codeapp](https://github.com/thebaselab/codeapp): Building a
  full-fledged code editor for iPad <https://code.thebaselab.com>
- [MonitorControl/MonitorControl](https://github.com/MonitorControl/MonitorControl):
  🖥 Control your display's brightness & volume on your Mac as if it was a native
  Apple Display. Use Apple Keyboard keys or custom shortcuts. Shows the native
  macOS OSDs. <https://monitorcontrol.app/>
- [p0deje/Maccy](https://github.com/p0deje/Maccy): Lightweight clipboard manager
  for macOS <https://maccy.app>
- [sicreative/BatteryStatusShow](https://github.com/sicreative/BatteryStatusShow):
  View MacOS and IOS battery Information
- [sveinbjornt/Sloth](https://github.com/sveinbjornt/Sloth): Mac app that shows
  all open files, directories, sockets, pipes and devices in use by all running
  processes. Nice GUI for lsof. <https://sveinbjorn.org/sloth>
- [maxgoedjen/secretive](https://github.com/maxgoedjen/secretive): Store SSH
  keys in the Secure Enclave
- [altstoreio/AltStore](https://github.com/altstoreio/AltStore): AltStore is an
  alternative app store for non-jailbroken iOS devices. <https://altstore.io>
- [chidiwilliams/buzz](https://github.com/chidiwilliams/buzz): Buzz transcribes
  and translates audio offline on your personal computer. Powered by OpenAI's
  Whisper.
- [rxhanson/Rectangle](https://github.com/rxhanson/Rectangle): Move and resize
  windows on macOS with keyboard shortcuts and snap areas
  <https://rectangleapp.com>
- [godly-devotion/MochiDiffusion](https://github.com/godly-devotion/MochiDiffusion):
  Run Stable Diffusion on Mac natively
- 🌟 [objective-see/LuLu](https://github.com/objective-see/LuLu): LuLu is the
  free macOS firewall
- [superhighfives/pika](https://github.com/superhighfives/pika): An open-source
  colour picker app for macOS <https://superhighfives.com/pika>
- [dwarvesf/hidden](https://github.com/dwarvesf/hidden): An ultra-light MacOS
  utility that helps hide menu bar icons <https://d.foundation/opensource>
- [MacPass/MacPass](https://github.com/MacPass/MacPass): A native macOS KeePass
  client <https://macpassapp.org>
- [actuallymentor/battery](https://github.com/actuallymentor/battery): CLI for
  managing the battery charging status for M1 Macs
- [coteditor/CotEditor](https://github.com/coteditor/CotEditor): Lightweight
  Plain-Text Editor for macOS <https://coteditor.com>
- [CodeEditApp/CodeEdit](https://github.com/CodeEditApp/CodeEdit): CodeEdit App
  for macOS – Elevate your code editing experience. Open source, free forever.
  <https://codeedit.app>
- [SlidePilot/SlidePilot-macOS](https://github.com/SlidePilot/SlidePilot-macOS):
  Ultimate PDF Presentation Tool for macOS 🖥
- [linearmouse/linearmouse](https://github.com/linearmouse/linearmouse): The
  mouse and trackpad utility for Mac. <https://linearmouse.app>

### Free / Paid

- 🌟 [TopNotch](https://topnotch.app): Makes the notch disappear like a 🥷
- [CleanShot X](https://cleanshot.com): Capture your Mac’s screen like a pro.
- 🌟 [Shottr](https://shottr.cc): Shottr is a small, fast, human-sized
  screenshot app built for those who care about pixels. It was crafted with
  Swift, optimized for M1, and is distributed for free.
- [Skim](https://skim-app.sourceforge.io): Skim is a PDF reader and note-taker
  for OS X. It is designed to help you read and annotate scientific papers in
  PDF, but is also great for viewing any PDF file.
- [Sensei](https://cindori.com/sensei): Sensei is the ultimate app for
  optimizing your Mac. Featuring a wide range of advanced cleaning and
  monitoring features, it's never been easier to maximize your Mac performance.
- [waydabber/BetterDisplay](https://github.com/waydabber/BetterDisplay): Unlock
  your displays on your Mac! Smooth scaling, HiDPI unlock, XDR/HDR extra
  brightness upscale, DDC, brightness and dimming, dummy displays, PIP and lots
  more! <https://betterdisplay.pro>
- [alin23/Lunar](https://github.com/alin23/Lunar): Intelligent adaptive
  brightness for your external monitors <https://lunar.fyi>
- [NTFS Disk by Omi](https://omiapps.com/product/1585757563): Best NTFS Disk
  Manager on Mac App Store
- [DaVinci Resolve](https://www.blackmagicdesign.com/products/davinciresolve):
  DaVinci Resolve is the world’s only solution that combines editing, color
  correction, visual effects, motion graphics and audio post production all in
  one software tool!
- [Aiko](https://sindresorhus.com/aiko): AI-powered audio transcription
- [MacGPT](https://www.macgpt.com): ChatGPT on your Mac and Menubar
- [Dropover](https://dropoverapp.com): Effortless Drag & Drop on your Mac
- [Battery Buddy](https://batterybuddy.app): It’s like the default battery
  indicator in your menu bar, but cute.
- [minimal.](https://minimal.app): increase focus. write beautifully. A
  meditation-inspired writing app designed for iPhone, iPad, and Mac.
- [Batteries for Mac](https://www.fadel.io/batteries): Track all your devices'
  batteries from your Mac.
- 🌟 [AlDente - Charge Limiter](https://apphousekitchen.com/): The ALL-IN-ONE
  charge Limiter App for MacBooks.
- [Shrugs.app](https://shrugs.app): Integrate macOS into your Slack experience.
- [Sip](https://sipapp.io/): A better Color Picker for your Mac.
- [BetterTouchTool](https://folivora.ai/): BetterTouchTool is a great, feature
  packed app that allows you to customize various input devices on your Mac.
- 🌟 [Swish](https://highlyopinionated.co/swish/): Insanely great window
  management
- 🌟 [GPG Suite](https://gpgtools.org/): One simple package with everything you
  need, to protect your emails and files.
- 🌟 [Contexts 3](https://contexts.co/): Radically simpler & faster window
  switcher
- 🌟 [Input Source Pro](https://inputsource.pro/): Switch and track your input
  sources with ease ✨
- 🌟 [Little Snitch](https://www.obdev.at/products/littlesnitch/index.html):
  Makes these Internet connections visible and puts you back in control!
- [Klack](https://tryklack.com/): Satisfying sound with every keystroke Download
  for Mac

## Services

- [giscus/giscus](https://github.com/giscus/giscus): A comment system powered by
  GitHub Discussions. :octocat: 💬 💎 <https://giscus.app>
- [djyde/cusdis](https://github.com/djyde/cusdis): lightweight, privacy-friendly
  alternative to Disqus. <https://cusdis.com>
- [XPoet/picx](https://github.com/XPoet/picx): 🏞️ PicX 是一款基于 GitHub API 开
  发的图床工具，提供图片上传托管、生成图片链接和常用图片工具箱服务。
  <https://picx.xpoet.cn>

### Self-hosted services

- [awesome-selfhosted/awesome-selfhosted](https://github.com/awesome-selfhosted/awesome-selfhosted):
  A list of Free Software network services and web applications which can be
  hosted on your own servers
- 🌟 [calcom/cal.com](https://github.com/calcom/cal.com): Scheduling
  infrastructure for absolutely everyone. <https://cal.com>
- [sissbruecker/linkding](https://github.com/sissbruecker/linkding): Self-hosted
  bookmark service
- [shellhub-io/shellhub](https://github.com/shellhub-io/shellhub): 💻 Get
  seamless remote access to any Linux device. Centralized SSH for the edge and
  cloud computing
- [simple-login/app](https://github.com/simple-login/app): The SimpleLogin
  back-end <https://simplelogin.io>
- [microfeed/microfeed](https://github.com/microfeed/microfeed): a lightweight
  cms self-hosted on cloudflare, for podcasts, blogs, photos, videos, documents,
  and curated urls. <https://www.microfeed.org>
- [photoprism/photoprism](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism): AI-Powered
  Photos App for the Decentralized Web 🌈💎✨ <https://photoprism.app>
- [immich-app/immich](https://github.com/immich-app/immich): Self-hosted photo
  and video backup solution directly from your mobile phone.
  <https://immich.app>
- [LycheeOrg/Lychee](https://github.com/LycheeOrg/Lychee): A great looking and
  easy-to-use photo-management-system you can run on your server, to manage and
  share photos. <https://lycheeorg.github.io>
- [omnivore-app/omnivore](https://github.com/omnivore-app/omnivore): Omnivore is
  a complete, open source read-it-later solution for people who like reading.
  <https://omnivore.app>
- [markmap/markmap](https://github.com/markmap/markmap): Visualize your Markdown
  as mindmaps with Markmap.
- [fauxpilot/fauxpilot](https://github.com/fauxpilot/fauxpilot): FauxPilot - an
  open-source GitHub Copilot server
- [matrix-org/dendrite](https://github.com/matrix-org/dendrite): Dendrite is a
  second-generation Matrix homeserver written in Go!
  <https://matrix-org.github.io/dendrite/>
- [webtorrent/webtorrent](https://github.com/webtorrent/webtorrent): ⚡️
  Streaming torrent client for the web <https://webtorrent.io>

### Email

- [mailcow/mailcow-dockerized](https://github.com/mailcow/mailcow-dockerized):
  mailcow: dockerized - 🐮 + 🐋 = 💕 <https://mailcow.email/>
- [mjl-/mox](https://github.com/mjl-/mox): modern full-featured open source
  secure mail server for low-maintenance self-hosted email
- [roundcube/roundcubemail](https://github.com/roundcube/roundcubemail): The
  Roundcube Webmail suite <https://roundcube.net>
- [RainLoop/rainloop-webmail](https://github.com/RainLoop/rainloop-webmail):
  Simple, modern & fast web-based email client <http://rainloop.net>
- [mail-in-a-box/mailinabox](https://github.com/mail-in-a-box/mailinabox):
  Mail-in-a-Box helps individuals take back control of their email by defining a
  one-click, easy-to-deploy SMTP+everything else server: a mail server in a box.
  <https://mailinabox.email>
- [iredmail/iRedMail](https://github.com/iredmail/iRedMail): Full-featured, open
  source mail server solution for mainstream Linux/BSD distributions.
  <https://www.iredmail.org>
- [poste.io](https://poste.io): SMTP + IMAP + POP3 + Antispam + Antivirus with
  Web administration + Web email ... on your server in ~5 minutes
  <https://hub.docker.com/r/analogic/poste.io>
- [grommunio/gromox](https://github.com/grommunio/gromox): Groupware server
  backend for the grommunio Distribution, supporting MAPI/HTTP, RPC/HTTP, IMAP,
  POP3 protocols, PHP-MAPI bindings, and import from PST/OST/MSG/TNEF,
  EML/ICAL/VCF, KDB <https://gromox.com>
- [Skiff Mail](https://skiff.com/mail): Skiff Mail protects your inbox by
  keeping your messages end-to-end encrypted. That means that no one but you has
  access to your data.

### Vault / Passwords

- [padloc/padloc](https://github.com/padloc/padloc): A modern, open source
  password manager for individuals and teams. <https://padloc.app>
- [lesspass/lesspass](https://github.com/lesspass/lesspass): 🔑 stateless open
  source password manager <https://www.lesspass.com>
- [Bitwarden](https://github.com/bitwarden): Open source password management
  solutions for individuals, teams, and business organizations.
  <https://bitwarden.com>
- [Passwordless](https://github.com/passwordless): Use open source and modern
  browser standards to build FIDO2 Webauthn applications for end users.
  <https://passwordless.dev>
- [dani-garcia/vaultwarden](https://github.com/dani-garcia/vaultwarden):
  Unofficial Bitwarden compatible server written in Rust, formerly known as
  bitwarden_rs
- [Buttercup](https://github.com/buttercup): Buttercup credentials management
  application
- [hashicorp/vault](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault): A tool for secrets
  management, encryption as a service, and privileged access management
  <https://www.vaultproject.io/>

Commit message:

Add individual system collection and libs: sockperf, formbricks, pg_embedding and flash-attention

hacker-life/software.md, after:

# Software / Services

## Software

- [qarmin/czkawka](https://github.com/qarmin/czkawka): Multi functional app to
  find duplicates, empty folders, similar images etc.
- [spacedriveapp/spacedrive](https://github.com/spacedriveapp/spacedrive):
  Spacedrive is an open source cross-platform file explorer, powered by a
  virtual distributed filesystem written in Rust.
- [elkowar/eww](https://github.com/elkowar/eww): ElKowars wacky widgets
  <https://elkowar.github.io/eww>
- 🌟 [LanguageTool](https://languagetool.org): Instantly Enhance Your Writing
- [HandBrake/HandBrake](https://github.com/HandBrake/HandBrake): HandBrake is a
  open-source tool, built by volunteers, for converting video from nearly any
  format to a selection of modern, widely supported codecs.
  <https://handbrake.fr>
- [mifi/lossless-cut](https://github.com/mifi/lossless-cut): The swiss army
  knife of lossless video/audio editing <https://mifi.no/losslesscut>
- 🌟 [mltframework/shotcut](https://github.com/mltframework/shotcut):
  cross-platform (Qt), open-source (GPLv3) video editor
  <https://www.shotcut.org>
  - Open source alternative to Adode Pr
- [Inkdrop](https://www.inkdrop.app): Organizing your Markdown notes made
  simple.
- [ahrm/sioyek](https://github.com/ahrm/sioyek): Sioyek is a PDF viewer designed
  for reading research papers and technical books. <https://sioyek.info>
- [duplicati/duplicati](https://github.com/duplicati/duplicati): Store securely
  encrypted backups in the cloud!
- [Pixcall](https://pixcall.com): 助力个人和团队以更好的方式管理图片、视频、文档
  等数字资产
- [reacherhq/check-if-email-exists](https://github.com/reacherhq/check-if-email-exists):
  Check if an email address exists without sending any email, written in Rust.
  Comes with a ⚙️ HTTP backend. <https://reacher.email>
- [borgbackup/borg](https://github.com/borgbackup/borg): Deduplicating archiver
  with compression and authenticated encryption. <https://www.borgbackup.org>
- [syncthing/syncthing](https://github.com/syncthing/syncthing): Open Source
  Continuous File Synchronization <https://forum.syncthing.net>
- [input-leap/input-leap](https://github.com/input-leap/input-leap): Open-source
  KVM (switch) software
- [fireyy/caricare](https://github.com/fireyy/caricare): A simple cross-platform
  desktop application for S3-Compatible Object Storage. Built in Rust using
  egui.
- 🌟
  [yihong0618/bilingual_book_maker](https://github.com/yihong0618/bilingual_book_maker):
  Make bilingual epub books Using AI translate
- [bookfere/Ebook-Translator-Calibre-Plugin](https://github.com/bookfere/Ebook-Translator-Calibre-Plugin):
  A Calibre plugin to translate ebook into a specified language.
  <https://bookfere.com/post/1057.html>
- 🌟
  [immersive-translate/immersive-translate](https://github.com/immersive-translate/immersive-translate):
  Immersive Dual Web Page Translation Extension - 沉浸式双语网页翻译扩展
  <https://immersive-translate.owenyoung.com/>
- [DIYgod/RSSHub](https://github.com/DIYgod/RSSHub): 🍰 Everything is RSSible
  <https://docs.rsshub.app>
- [raphamorim/rio](https://github.com/raphamorim/rio): A hardware-accelerated
  GPU terminal emulator powered by WebGPU, focusing to run in desktops and
  browsers. <https://raphamorim.io/rio>
- [lollipopkit/flutter_server_box](https://github.com/lollipopkit/flutter_server_box):
  server status & toolbox app using Flutter
- 🌟 [Waydroid](https://waydro.id/): A container-based approach to boot a full
  Android system on a regular GNU/Linux system like Ubuntu.

## macOS / iPadOS

### Open Source

- [dsully/macos-defaults](https://github.com/dsully/macos-defaults): A tool for
  managing macOS defaults declaratively via YAML files.
- [ravynsoft/ravynos](https://github.com/ravynsoft/ravynos): A BSD-based OS
  project that aims to provide an experience like and some compatibility with
  macOS (formerly known as airyxOS) <https://www.ravynos.com>
- [orbstack/orbstack](https://github.com/orbstack/orbstack): Fast, light, simple
  Docker containers & Linux machines for macOS <https://orbstack.dev>
- [lwouis/alt-tab-macos](https://github.com/lwouis/alt-tab-macos): Windows
  alt-tab on macOS <https://alt-tab-macos.netlify.app>
- [RobotsAndPencils/XcodesApp](https://github.com/RobotsAndPencils/XcodesApp):
  The easiest way to install and switch between multiple versions of Xcode -
  with a mouse click.
- [exelban/stats](https://github.com/exelban/stats): macOS system monitor in
  your menu bar
- [thebaselab/codeapp](https://github.com/thebaselab/codeapp): Building a
  full-fledged code editor for iPad <https://code.thebaselab.com>
- [MonitorControl/MonitorControl](https://github.com/MonitorControl/MonitorControl):
  🖥 Control your display's brightness & volume on your Mac as if it was a native
  Apple Display. Use Apple Keyboard keys or custom shortcuts. Shows the native
  macOS OSDs. <https://monitorcontrol.app/>
- [p0deje/Maccy](https://github.com/p0deje/Maccy): Lightweight clipboard manager
  for macOS <https://maccy.app>
- [sicreative/BatteryStatusShow](https://github.com/sicreative/BatteryStatusShow):
  View MacOS and IOS battery Information
- [sveinbjornt/Sloth](https://github.com/sveinbjornt/Sloth): Mac app that shows
  all open files, directories, sockets, pipes and devices in use by all running
  processes. Nice GUI for lsof. <https://sveinbjorn.org/sloth>
- [maxgoedjen/secretive](https://github.com/maxgoedjen/secretive): Store SSH
  keys in the Secure Enclave
- [altstoreio/AltStore](https://github.com/altstoreio/AltStore): AltStore is an
  alternative app store for non-jailbroken iOS devices. <https://altstore.io>
- [chidiwilliams/buzz](https://github.com/chidiwilliams/buzz): Buzz transcribes
  and translates audio offline on your personal computer. Powered by OpenAI's
  Whisper.
- [rxhanson/Rectangle](https://github.com/rxhanson/Rectangle): Move and resize
  windows on macOS with keyboard shortcuts and snap areas
  <https://rectangleapp.com>
- [godly-devotion/MochiDiffusion](https://github.com/godly-devotion/MochiDiffusion):
  Run Stable Diffusion on Mac natively
- 🌟 [objective-see/LuLu](https://github.com/objective-see/LuLu): LuLu is the
  free macOS firewall
- [superhighfives/pika](https://github.com/superhighfives/pika): An open-source
  colour picker app for macOS <https://superhighfives.com/pika>
- [dwarvesf/hidden](https://github.com/dwarvesf/hidden): An ultra-light MacOS
  utility that helps hide menu bar icons <https://d.foundation/opensource>
- [MacPass/MacPass](https://github.com/MacPass/MacPass): A native macOS KeePass
  client <https://macpassapp.org>
- [actuallymentor/battery](https://github.com/actuallymentor/battery): CLI for
  managing the battery charging status for M1 Macs
- [coteditor/CotEditor](https://github.com/coteditor/CotEditor): Lightweight
  Plain-Text Editor for macOS <https://coteditor.com>
- [CodeEditApp/CodeEdit](https://github.com/CodeEditApp/CodeEdit): CodeEdit App
  for macOS – Elevate your code editing experience. Open source, free forever.
  <https://codeedit.app>
- [SlidePilot/SlidePilot-macOS](https://github.com/SlidePilot/SlidePilot-macOS):
  Ultimate PDF Presentation Tool for macOS 🖥
- [linearmouse/linearmouse](https://github.com/linearmouse/linearmouse): The
  mouse and trackpad utility for Mac. <https://linearmouse.app>
- [redcanaryco/mac-monitor](https://github.com/redcanaryco/mac-monitor): Red
  Canary Mac Monitor is an advanced, stand-alone system monitoring tool
  tailor-made for macOS security research. Beginning with Endpoint Security
  (ES), it collects and enriches system events, displaying them graphically,
  with an expansive feature set designed to reduce noise.

### Free / Paid

- 🌟 [TopNotch](https://topnotch.app): Makes the notch disappear like a 🥷
- [CleanShot X](https://cleanshot.com): Capture your Mac’s screen like a pro.
- 🌟 [Shottr](https://shottr.cc): Shottr is a small, fast, human-sized
  screenshot app built for those who care about pixels. It was crafted with
  Swift, optimized for M1, and is distributed for free.
- [Skim](https://skim-app.sourceforge.io): Skim is a PDF reader and note-taker
  for OS X. It is designed to help you read and annotate scientific papers in
  PDF, but is also great for viewing any PDF file.
- [Sensei](https://cindori.com/sensei): Sensei is the ultimate app for
  optimizing your Mac. Featuring a wide range of advanced cleaning and
  monitoring features, it's never been easier to maximize your Mac performance.
- [waydabber/BetterDisplay](https://github.com/waydabber/BetterDisplay): Unlock
  your displays on your Mac! Smooth scaling, HiDPI unlock, XDR/HDR extra
  brightness upscale, DDC, brightness and dimming, dummy displays, PIP and lots
  more! <https://betterdisplay.pro>
- [alin23/Lunar](https://github.com/alin23/Lunar): Intelligent adaptive
  brightness for your external monitors <https://lunar.fyi>
- [NTFS Disk by Omi](https://omiapps.com/product/1585757563): Best NTFS Disk
  Manager on Mac App Store
- [DaVinci Resolve](https://www.blackmagicdesign.com/products/davinciresolve):
  DaVinci Resolve is the world’s only solution that combines editing, color
  correction, visual effects, motion graphics and audio post production all in
  one software tool!
- [Aiko](https://sindresorhus.com/aiko): AI-powered audio transcription
- [MacGPT](https://www.macgpt.com): ChatGPT on your Mac and Menubar
- [Dropover](https://dropoverapp.com): Effortless Drag & Drop on your Mac
- [Battery Buddy](https://batterybuddy.app): It’s like the default battery
  indicator in your menu bar, but cute.
- [minimal.](https://minimal.app): increase focus. write beautifully. A
  meditation-inspired writing app designed for iPhone, iPad, and Mac.
- [Batteries for Mac](https://www.fadel.io/batteries): Track all your devices'
  batteries from your Mac.
- 🌟 [AlDente - Charge Limiter](https://apphousekitchen.com/): The ALL-IN-ONE
  charge Limiter App for MacBooks.
- [Shrugs.app](https://shrugs.app): Integrate macOS into your Slack experience.
- [Sip](https://sipapp.io/): A better Color Picker for your Mac.
- [BetterTouchTool](https://folivora.ai/): BetterTouchTool is a great, feature
  packed app that allows you to customize various input devices on your Mac.
- 🌟 [Swish](https://highlyopinionated.co/swish/): Insanely great window
  management
- 🌟 [GPG Suite](https://gpgtools.org/): One simple package with everything you
  need, to protect your emails and files.
- 🌟 [Contexts 3](https://contexts.co/): Radically simpler & faster window
  switcher
- 🌟 [Input Source Pro](https://inputsource.pro/): Switch and track your input
  sources with ease ✨
- 🌟 [Little Snitch](https://www.obdev.at/products/littlesnitch/index.html):
  Makes these Internet connections visible and puts you back in control!
- [Klack](https://tryklack.com/): Satisfying sound with every keystroke Download
  for Mac

## Services

- [giscus/giscus](https://github.com/giscus/giscus): A comment system powered by
  GitHub Discussions. :octocat: 💬 💎 <https://giscus.app>
- [djyde/cusdis](https://github.com/djyde/cusdis): lightweight, privacy-friendly
  alternative to Disqus. <https://cusdis.com>
- [XPoet/picx](https://github.com/XPoet/picx): 🏞️ PicX 是一款基于 GitHub API 开
  发的图床工具，提供图片上传托管、生成图片链接和常用图片工具箱服务。
  <https://picx.xpoet.cn>

### Self-hosted services

- [awesome-selfhosted/awesome-selfhosted](https://github.com/awesome-selfhosted/awesome-selfhosted):
  A list of Free Software network services and web applications which can be
  hosted on your own servers
- 🌟 [calcom/cal.com](https://github.com/calcom/cal.com): Scheduling
  infrastructure for absolutely everyone. <https://cal.com>
- [sissbruecker/linkding](https://github.com/sissbruecker/linkding): Self-hosted
  bookmark service
- [shellhub-io/shellhub](https://github.com/shellhub-io/shellhub): 💻 Get
  seamless remote access to any Linux device. Centralized SSH for the edge and
  cloud computing
- [simple-login/app](https://github.com/simple-login/app): The SimpleLogin
  back-end <https://simplelogin.io>
- [microfeed/microfeed](https://github.com/microfeed/microfeed): a lightweight
  cms self-hosted on cloudflare, for podcasts, blogs, photos, videos, documents,
  and curated urls. <https://www.microfeed.org>
- [photoprism/photoprism](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism): AI-Powered
  Photos App for the Decentralized Web 🌈💎✨ <https://photoprism.app>
- [immich-app/immich](https://github.com/immich-app/immich): Self-hosted photo
  and video backup solution directly from your mobile phone.
  <https://immich.app>
- [LycheeOrg/Lychee](https://github.com/LycheeOrg/Lychee): A great looking and
  easy-to-use photo-management-system you can run on your server, to manage and
  share photos. <https://lycheeorg.github.io>
- [omnivore-app/omnivore](https://github.com/omnivore-app/omnivore): Omnivore is
  a complete, open source read-it-later solution for people who like reading.
  <https://omnivore.app>
- [markmap/markmap](https://github.com/markmap/markmap): Visualize your Markdown
  as mindmaps with Markmap.
- [fauxpilot/fauxpilot](https://github.com/fauxpilot/fauxpilot): FauxPilot - an
  open-source GitHub Copilot server
- [matrix-org/dendrite](https://github.com/matrix-org/dendrite): Dendrite is a
  second-generation Matrix homeserver written in Go!
  <https://matrix-org.github.io/dendrite/>
- [webtorrent/webtorrent](https://github.com/webtorrent/webtorrent): ⚡️
  Streaming torrent client for the web <https://webtorrent.io>
- [jesec/flood](https://github.com/jesec/flood): A modern web UI for various
  torrent clients with a Node.js backend and React frontend.
  <https://flood.js.org>
- [formbricks/formbricks](https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks): Open Source
  Surveys & Experience Management Solution <https://formbricks.com>

### Email

- [mailcow/mailcow-dockerized](https://github.com/mailcow/mailcow-dockerized):
  mailcow: dockerized - 🐮 + 🐋 = 💕 <https://mailcow.email/>
- [mjl-/mox](https://github.com/mjl-/mox): modern full-featured open source
  secure mail server for low-maintenance self-hosted email
- [roundcube/roundcubemail](https://github.com/roundcube/roundcubemail): The
  Roundcube Webmail suite <https://roundcube.net>
- [RainLoop/rainloop-webmail](https://github.com/RainLoop/rainloop-webmail):
  Simple, modern & fast web-based email client <http://rainloop.net>
- [mail-in-a-box/mailinabox](https://github.com/mail-in-a-box/mailinabox):
  Mail-in-a-Box helps individuals take back control of their email by defining a
  one-click, easy-to-deploy SMTP+everything else server: a mail server in a box.
  <https://mailinabox.email>
- [iredmail/iRedMail](https://github.com/iredmail/iRedMail): Full-featured, open
  source mail server solution for mainstream Linux/BSD distributions.
  <https://www.iredmail.org>
- [poste.io](https://poste.io): SMTP + IMAP + POP3 + Antispam + Antivirus with
  Web administration + Web email ... on your server in ~5 minutes
  <https://hub.docker.com/r/analogic/poste.io>
- [grommunio/gromox](https://github.com/grommunio/gromox): Groupware server
  backend for the grommunio Distribution, supporting MAPI/HTTP, RPC/HTTP, IMAP,
  POP3 protocols, PHP-MAPI bindings, and import from PST/OST/MSG/TNEF,
  EML/ICAL/VCF, KDB <https://gromox.com>
- [Skiff Mail](https://skiff.com/mail): Skiff Mail protects your inbox by
  keeping your messages end-to-end encrypted. That means that no one but you has
  access to your data.

### Vault / Passwords

- [padloc/padloc](https://github.com/padloc/padloc): A modern, open source
  password manager for individuals and teams. <https://padloc.app>
- [lesspass/lesspass](https://github.com/lesspass/lesspass): 🔑 stateless open
  source password manager <https://www.lesspass.com>
- [Bitwarden](https://github.com/bitwarden): Open source password management
  solutions for individuals, teams, and business organizations.
  <https://bitwarden.com>
- [Passwordless](https://github.com/passwordless): Use open source and modern
  browser standards to build FIDO2 Webauthn applications for end users.
  <https://passwordless.dev>
- [dani-garcia/vaultwarden](https://github.com/dani-garcia/vaultwarden):
  Unofficial Bitwarden compatible server written in Rust, formerly known as
  bitwarden_rs
- [Buttercup](https://github.com/buttercup): Buttercup credentials management
  application
- [hashicorp/vault](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault): A tool for secrets
  management, encryption as a service, and privileged access management
  <https://www.vaultproject.io/>
