long-game/database.md, before:

# Database

## Resources

### Entry level tutorials

- [Enhance your Postgres skills](https://www.crunchydata.com/developers/tutorials)
- [Generating lots of test data with Postgres, fast and faster](https://kmoppel.github.io/2022-12-23-generating-lots-of-test-data-with-postgres-fast-and-faster/)
- [Writing a Python SQL engine from scratch](https://github.com/tobymao/sqlglot/blob/main/posts/python_sql_engine.md)
- [alextanhongpin/database-design](https://github.com/alextanhongpin/database-design): Ideas on better database design
- [postgres-ai/postgres-howtos](https://github.com/postgres-ai/postgres-howtos): Postgres HowTo articles
- [kvko/sqlmap-wiki-zhcn](https://github.com/kvko/sqlmap-wiki-zhcn): 可能是最完整的 sqlmap 中文文档。 <https://sqlmap.highlight.ink>

### Books

- [jackwener/Readings-in-Database-Systems-5th-CN](https://github.com/jackwener/Readings-in-Database-Systems-5th-CN): Readings in Database Systems, 5th Edition 中文翻译
- [Use The Index, Luke!](https://use-the-index-luke.com/): A site explaining SQL indexing to developers—no crap about administration.

### Readings

- [rxin/db-readings](https://github.com/rxin/db-readings): Readings in Databases
- [pingcap/awesome-database-learning](https://github.com/pingcap/awesome-database-learning): A list of learning materials to understand databases internals
- [Sunt-ing/database-system-readings](https://github.com/Sunt-ing/database-system-readings): 😋 A curated reading list about database systems
- [huachaohuang/awesome-dbdev](https://github.com/huachaohuang/awesome-dbdev): Awesome materials about database development.
- [erikgrinaker/readings](https://github.com/erikgrinaker/readings): Interesting readings and talks on computer science
- [Qiaolin-Yu/paper-reading](https://github.com/Qiaolin-Yu/paper-reading): A list of papers I have read.
- [ept/hermitage](https://github.com/ept/hermitage): What are the differences between the transaction isolation levels in databases? This is a suite of test cases which differentiate isolation levels. <http://martin.kleppmann.com/2014/11/25/hermitage-testing-the-i-in-acid.html>

### Talks

- [The Dutch Seminar on Data Systems Design](https://dsdsd.da.cwi.nl/)

## Libraries for DB

- 🌟 [substrait-io/substrait](https://github.com/substrait-io/substrait): A cross platform way to express data transformation, relational algebra, standardized record expression and plans. <https://substrait.io>
- 🌟 [facebookincubator/velox](https://github.com/facebookincubator/velox): A C++ vectorized database acceleration library aimed to optimizing query engines and data processing systems. <https://facebookincubator.github.io/velox>
- [Fullstop000/wickdb](https://github.com/Fullstop000/wickdb): Pure Rust LSM-tree based embedded storage engine
- [tcdi/pgrx](https://github.com/tcdi/pgrx): Build Postgres Extensions with Rust!
- [sunng87/pgwire](https://github.com/sunng87/pgwire): PostgreSQL wire protocol implemented as a rust library.
- [apache/arrow-ballista](https://github.com/apache/arrow-ballista): Apache Arrow Ballista Distributed Query Engine <https://arrow.apache.org/ballista>
- 🌟 [apache/calcite](https://github.com/apache/calcite): Apache Calcite is a dynamic data management framework. . It provides an industry standard SQL parser and validator, a customisable optimizer with pluggable rules and cost functions, logical and physical algebraic operators, various transformation algorithms from SQL to algebra (and the opposite). <https://calcite.apache.org/>
- [penberg/mvcc-rs](https://github.com/penberg/mvcc-rs): Optimistic multi-version concurrency control (MVCC) for main memory databases, written in Rust.
- 📝 [marsupialtail/quokka](https://github.com/marsupialtail/quokka): Making data lake work for time series <https://marsupialtail.github.io/quokka/>
- [kayak/pypika](https://github.com/kayak/pypika): PyPika is a python SQL query builder that exposes the full richness of the SQL language using a syntax that reflects the resulting query. PyPika excels at all sorts of SQL queries but is especially useful for data analysis. <http://pypika.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>
- [microsoft/verified-storage](https://github.com/microsoft/verified-storage): Storage systems with verified correctness properties

### Practices

- [cmu-db/bustub](https://github.com/cmu-db/bustub): The BusTub Relational Database Management System (Educational) <https://15445.courses.cs.cmu.edu>
- [risinglightdb/risinglight](https://github.com/risinglightdb/risinglight): An OLAP database system for educational purpose
- [erikgrinaker/toydb](https://github.com/erikgrinaker/toydb): Distributed SQL database in Rust, written as a learning project
- [khonsulabs/okaywal](https://github.com/khonsulabs/okaywal): A Write Ahead Log (WAL) implementation in Rust

## New databases

- [oceanbase/oceanbase](https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase): OceanBase is an enterprise distributed relational database with high availability, high performance, horizontal scalability, and compatibility with SQL standards. <https://open.oceanbase.com/>
- [datafuselabs/databend](https://github.com/datafuselabs/databend): A modern Elasticity and Performance cloud data warehouse, activate your object storage for real-time analytics. <https://databend.rs> (clickhouse in rust?)
- 🌟 [gluesql/gluesql](https://github.com/gluesql/gluesql): GlueSQL is quite sticky, it attaches to anywhere.
- 🌟 [coilhq/tigerbeetle](https://github.com/coilhq/tigerbeetle): A distributed financial accounting database designed for mission critical safety and performance to power the future of financial services. <https://www.tigerbeetle.com>
- [FerretDB/FerretDB](https://github.com/FerretDB/FerretDB): A truly Open Source MongoDB alternative <https://www.ferretdb.io>
- [orioledb/orioledb](https://github.com/orioledb/orioledb): OrioleDB – building a modern cloud-native storage engine (... and solving some PostgreSQL wicked problems)  🇺🇦

### Novel SQLite

- [superfly/litefs](https://github.com/superfly/litefs): FUSE-based file system for replicating SQLite databases across a cluster of machines
- [benbjohnson/litestream](https://github.com/benbjohnson/litestream): Streaming replication for SQLite. <https://litestream.io>
- [canonical/dqlite](https://github.com/canonical/dqlite): Embeddable, replicated and fault tolerant SQL engine. <https://dqlite.io>
- [rqlite/rqlite](https://github.com/rqlite/rqlite): The lightweight, distributed relational database built on SQLite <https://rqlite.io>
- [libsql/libsql](https://github.com/libsql/libsql): libSQL is a fork of SQLite that is both Open Source, and Open Contributions. <https://libsql.org>
- [losfair/mvsqlite](https://github.com/losfair/mvsqlite): Distributed, MVCC SQLite that runs on FoundationDB. <https://mvsqlite-docs.univalence.me>
- [vlcn-io/cr-sqlite](https://github.com/vlcn-io/cr-sqlite): Convergent, Replicated SQLite. Multi-writer and CRDT support for SQLite <https://vlcn.io/>
- [Expensify/Bedrock](https://github.com/Expensify/Bedrock): Rock solid distributed database specializing in active/active automatic failover and WAN replication <https://bedrockdb.com>
- [SQLite Cloud](https://sqlitecloud.io/): Cloud-share any SQLite database in no time

### Timeseries & Graph

- [influxdata/influxdb_iox](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb_iox): Pronounced (influxdb eye-ox), short for iron oxide. This is the new core of InfluxDB written in Rust on top of Apache Arrow.
- [cnosdb/cnosdb](https://github.com/cnosdb/cnosdb): An Open Source Distributed Time Series Database with high performance, high compression ratio and high usability. <https://www.cnosdb.com>
- [surrealdb/surrealdb](https://github.com/surrealdb/surrealdb): A scalable, distributed, collaborative, document-graph database, for the realtime web <https://surrealdb.com>
- [cozodb/cozo](https://github.com/cozodb/cozo): A general-purpose, transactional, relational database that uses Datalog and focuses on graph data and algorithms
- [TuGraph-family/tugraph-db](https://github.com/TuGraph-family/tugraph-db): TuGraph is a high performance graph database. <https://tugraph.org>
- [memgraph/memgraph](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph): Open-source graph database, built for real-time streaming data, compatible with Neo4j. <https://memgraph.com>
- [Netflix/atlas](https://github.com/Netflix/atlas): In-memory dimensional time series database.

### KV

- 🌟 [facebook/rocksdb](https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb): A library that provides an embeddable, persistent key-value store for fast storage. <http://rocksdb.org>
- 🌟 [apple/foundationdb](https://github.com/apple/foundationdb): FoundationDB - the open source, distributed, transactional key-value store <https://www.foundationdb.org>
- 🌟 [spacejam/sled](https://github.com/spacejam/sled): the champagne of beta embedded databases
- [microsoft/FASTER](https://github.com/microsoft/FASTER): Fast persistent recoverable log and key-value store + cache, in C# and C++. <https://aka.ms/FASTER>
- [speedb-io/speedb](https://github.com/speedb-io/speedb): A RocksDB compliant high performance scalable embedded key-value store <https://www.speedb.io/>

### Cache

- [dragonflydb/dragonfly](https://github.com/dragonflydb/dragonfly): A modern replacement for Redis and Memcached <https://dragonflydb.io/>
- [Snapchat/KeyDB](https://github.com/Snapchat/KeyDB): A Multithreaded Fork of Redis <https://keydb.dev>

### Vector

- [qdrant/qdrant](https://github.com/qdrant/qdrant): Qdrant - Vector Database for the next generation of AI applications <https://qdrant.tech>
  - [tyrchen/qdrant-lib](https://github.com/tyrchen/qdrant-lib): Extract core logic from qdrant and make it available as a library.
- [Pinecone](https://www.pinecone.io/): The Pinecone vector database makes it easy to build high-performance vector search applications. Developer-friendly, fully managed, and easily scalable without infrastructure hassles.
- [milvus-io/milvus](https://github.com/milvus-io/milvus): Vector database for scalable similarity search and AI applications. <https://milvus.io> <https://zilliz.com>
- [jdagdelen/hyperDB](https://github.com/jdagdelen/hyperDB): A hyper-fast local vector database for use with LLM Agents.
- [chroma-core/chroma](https://github.com/chroma-core/chroma): the AI-native open-source embedding database <https://www.trychroma.com>

🌟 You may don't need a vector database, just use a vector index library:

- [pgvector/pgvector](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector): Open-source vector similarity search for Postgres
- [tensorchord/pgvecto.rs](https://github.com/tensorchord/pgvecto.rs): Vector database plugin for Postgres, written in Rust
- [asg017/sqlite-vss](https://github.com/asg017/sqlite-vss): A SQLite extension for efficient vector search, based on Faiss!

### Postgres

- [readysettech/readyset](https://github.com/readysettech/readyset): ReadySet is a lightweight SQL caching engine written in Rust that helps developers enhance the performance and scalability of existing applications. <https://readyset.io>
  - [mit-pdos/noria](https://github.com/mit-pdos/noria): Fast web applications through dynamic, partially-stateful dataflow
- [yugabyte/yugabyte-db](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db): YugabyteDB - the cloud native distributed SQL database for mission-critical applications. <https://www.yugabyte.com>
- [neondatabase/neon](https://github.com/neondatabase/neon): Neon: Serverless Postgres. We separated storage and compute to offer autoscaling, branching, and bottomless storage. <https://neon.tech>
- [HydrasDB/hydra](https://github.com/HydrasDB/hydra): The open source Snowflake alternative. OLAP Postgres <https://hydra.so>
- [CrunchyData/postgres-operator](https://github.com/CrunchyData/postgres-operator): Production PostgreSQL for Kubernetes, from high availability Postgres clusters to full-scale database-as-a-service. <https://access.crunchydata.com/documentation/postgres-operator/v5>
- [sorintlab/stolon](https://github.com/sorintlab/stolon): PostgreSQL cloud native High Availability and more. <https://talk.stolon.io>
- [CoreDB-io/coredb](https://github.com/CoreDB-io/coredb): Postgres for Everything <http://coredb.io>

### In-memory

- [Rustixir/darkbird](https://github.com/Rustixir/darkbird): High concurrency, Real time, In-memory storage inspired by erlang mnesia
- [chdb-io/chdb](https://github.com/chdb-io/chdb): chDB is an embedded OLAP SQL Engine powered by ClickHouse
- [duckdb/duckdb](https://github.com/duckdb/duckdb): DuckDB is an in-process SQL OLAP Database Management System <http://www.duckdb.org>
  - [davidgasquez/awesome-duckdb](https://github.com/davidgasquez/awesome-duckdb): 🦆 A curated list of awesome DuckDB resources

## DBA or Extensions

- [metalbear-co/mirrord](https://github.com/metalbear-co/mirrord): mirrord lets you easily mirror traffic from your production environment to your development environment.
- [Qovery/Replibyte](https://github.com/Qovery/Replibyte): Seed your development database with real data ⚡️ <https://www.replibyte.com>
- [bytebase/bytebase](https://github.com/bytebase/bytebase): Safe database schema change and version control for DevOps teams. <https://www.bytebase.com>
- [flyway/flyway](https://github.com/flyway/flyway): Flyway by Redgate • Database Migrations Made Easy. <https://flywaydb.org>
- [wal-g/wal-g](https://github.com/wal-g/wal-g): Archival and Restoration for databases in the Cloud
- [datafold/data-diff](https://github.com/datafold/data-diff): Efficiently diff data in or across relational databases <https://www.datafold.com/blog/open-source-data-diff>
- [centerofci/mathesar](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar): Web application providing an intuitive user experience to databases. <https://mathesar.org>
- [mgramin/awesome-db-tools](https://github.com/mgramin/awesome-db-tools): Everything that makes working with databases easier
- [PostHog/HouseWatch](https://github.com/PostHog/HouseWatch): Open source tool for monitoring and managing ClickHouse clusters
- 🌟 [sqlmapproject/sqlmap](https://github.com/sqlmapproject/sqlmap): Automatic SQL injection and database takeover tool <http://sqlmap.org>

### ERD

- [pgmodeler/pgmodeler](https://github.com/pgmodeler/pgmodeler): Open-source data modeling tool designed for PostgreSQL. No more typing DDL commands. Let pgModeler do the work for you! <https://pgmodeler.io>
- [azimuttapp/azimutt](https://github.com/azimuttapp/azimutt): Next-Gen ERD: Design, Explore, Document and Analyze your database <https://azimutt.app?ref=github-repo>
- [Wisser/Jailer](https://github.com/Wisser/Jailer): Database Subsetting and Relational Data Browsing Tool. <https://wisser.github.io/Jailer>

### PG

- [zalando/patroni](https://github.com/zalando/patroni): A template for PostgreSQL High Availability with Etcd, Consul, ZooKeeper, or Kubernetes
- [levkk/pgcat](https://github.com/levkk/pgcat): PostgreSQL pooler with sharding, load balancing and failover support.
- [EnterpriseDB/barman](https://github.com/EnterpriseDB/barman): Barman - Backup and Recovery Manager for PostgreSQL <https://www.pgbarman.org>
- [yandex/odyssey](https://github.com/yandex/odyssey): Scalable PostgreSQL connection pooler
- [ankane/pghero](https://github.com/ankane/pghero): A performance dashboard for Postgres
- [aiven/pgtracer](https://github.com/aiven/pgtracer): Tracing tools for PostgreSQL, using eBPF
- [oguimbal/pg-mem](https://github.com/oguimbal/pg-mem): An in memory postgres DB instance for your unit tests
- [supabase/pg_jsonschema](https://github.com/supabase/pg_jsonschema): PostgreSQL extension providing JSON Schema validation
- [supabase/postgres](https://github.com/supabase/postgres): Unmodified Postgres with some useful plugins
- 🌟 [Vonng/pigsty](https://github.com/Vonng/pigsty): PostgreSQL in Great STYle, Battery-Included Free RDS Alternative! <https://pigsty.cc>
- 🌟 [supabase/dbdev](https://github.com/supabase/dbdev): Database Package Registry for Postgres <https://database.dev>
- [pgpartman/pg_partman](https://github.com/pgpartman/pg_partman): Partition management extension for PostgreSQL
- [postgrespro/aqo](https://github.com/postgrespro/aqo): Adaptive query optimization for PostgreSQL
- 🌟 [PostgreSQL Configurator](https://pgconfigurator.cybertec-postgresql.com)
- [pgadmin-org/pgadmin4](https://github.com/pgadmin-org/pgadmin4): pgAdmin is the most popular and feature rich Open Source administration and development platform for PostgreSQL, the most advanced Open Source database in the world. <https://www.pgadmin.org>
- [zalando/spilo](https://github.com/zalando/spilo): Highly available elephant herd: HA PostgreSQL cluster using Docker
- [tembo-io/pgmq](https://github.com/tembo-io/pgmq): A lightweight message queue. Like AWS SQS and RSMQ but on Postgres.
  - [Anatomy of a Postgres extension written in Rust: pgmq](https://tembo.io/blog/postgres-extension-in-rust-pgmq)
- [supabase/postgres_lsp](https://github.com/supabase/postgres_lsp): A Language Server for Postgres <https://supabase.com>
- [ChenHuajun/pg_roaringbitmap](https://github.com/ChenHuajun/pg_roaringbitmap): RoaringBitmap extension for PostgreSQL
- [omnigres/omnigres](https://github.com/omnigres/omnigres): Postgres as a Platform
- [bensheldon/good_job](https://github.com/bensheldon/good_job): Multithreaded, Postgres-based, Active Job backend for Ruby on Rails. <https://goodjob-demo.herokuapp.com/>
- [citusdata/pg_cron](https://github.com/citusdata/pg_cron): Run periodic jobs in PostgreSQL
- [reorg/pg_repack](https://github.com/reorg/pg_repack): Reorganize tables in PostgreSQL databases with minimal locks
- [PostgresQL Docs - Appendix F. Additional Supplied Modules and Extensions](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/contrib.html)
  - [F.28. pgcrypto — cryptographic functions](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/pgcrypto.html)
  - [F.32. pg_stat_statements — track statistics of SQL planning and execution](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/pgstatstatements.html)
  - [F.35. pg_trgm — support for similarity of text using trigram matching](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/pgtrgm.html)
  - [F.49. uuid-ossp — a UUID generator](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/uuid-ossp.html)
- [Beyond the Basics: Exploring PostgreSQL Extensions](https://www.timescale.com/learn/postgresql-extensions)
  - amcheck
  - hstore
  - ltree
  - pgcrypto
  - pg_stat_statements
  - pg_trgm
  - pgvector
  - uuid-ossp

### SQLite

- [nalgeon/sqlean](https://github.com/nalgeon/sqlean): The ultimate set of SQLite extensions
- [nalgeon/sqlpkg](https://github.com/nalgeon/sqlpkg): SQLite package registry <https://sqlpkg.org>

## Benchmark

- [ClickHouse/ClickBench](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickBench): ClickBench: a Benchmark For Analytical Databases <https://benchmark.clickhouse.com/>
- [qdrant/vector-db-benchmark](https://github.com/qdrant/vector-db-benchmark): <https://qdrant.tech/benchmarks>
- [duckdblabs/db-benchmark](https://github.com/duckdblabs/db-benchmark): reproducible benchmark of database-like ops <https://duckdblabs.github.io/db-benchmark/>
- [sqlbench-ds](https://github.com/sql-benchmarks/sqlbench-ds): SQL Benchmark derived from TPC-DS

## In a SQL way

- [thevahidal/soul](https://github.com/thevahidal/soul): 🕉 A SQLite REST and realtime server
- [splitgraph/seafowl](https://github.com/splitgraph/seafowl): Analytical database for data-driven Web applications <https://seafowl.io>
- [osquery/osquery](https://github.com/osquery/osquery): SQL powered operating system instrumentation, monitoring, and analytics. <https://osquery.io>

Commit message:

Add faker-js, vocs and skyzh/write-you-a-vector-db

long-game/database.md, after:

# Database

## Resources

### Entry level tutorials

- [Enhance your Postgres skills](https://www.crunchydata.com/developers/tutorials)
- [Generating lots of test data with Postgres, fast and faster](https://kmoppel.github.io/2022-12-23-generating-lots-of-test-data-with-postgres-fast-and-faster/)
- [Writing a Python SQL engine from scratch](https://github.com/tobymao/sqlglot/blob/main/posts/python_sql_engine.md)
- [alextanhongpin/database-design](https://github.com/alextanhongpin/database-design): Ideas on better database design
- [postgres-ai/postgres-howtos](https://github.com/postgres-ai/postgres-howtos): Postgres HowTo articles
- [kvko/sqlmap-wiki-zhcn](https://github.com/kvko/sqlmap-wiki-zhcn): 可能是最完整的 sqlmap 中文文档。 <https://sqlmap.highlight.ink>

### Books

- [jackwener/Readings-in-Database-Systems-5th-CN](https://github.com/jackwener/Readings-in-Database-Systems-5th-CN): Readings in Database Systems, 5th Edition 中文翻译
- [Use The Index, Luke!](https://use-the-index-luke.com/): A site explaining SQL indexing to developers—no crap about administration.

### Readings

- [rxin/db-readings](https://github.com/rxin/db-readings): Readings in Databases
- [pingcap/awesome-database-learning](https://github.com/pingcap/awesome-database-learning): A list of learning materials to understand databases internals
- [Sunt-ing/database-system-readings](https://github.com/Sunt-ing/database-system-readings): 😋 A curated reading list about database systems
- [huachaohuang/awesome-dbdev](https://github.com/huachaohuang/awesome-dbdev): Awesome materials about database development.
- [erikgrinaker/readings](https://github.com/erikgrinaker/readings): Interesting readings and talks on computer science
- [Qiaolin-Yu/paper-reading](https://github.com/Qiaolin-Yu/paper-reading): A list of papers I have read.
- [ept/hermitage](https://github.com/ept/hermitage): What are the differences between the transaction isolation levels in databases? This is a suite of test cases which differentiate isolation levels. <http://martin.kleppmann.com/2014/11/25/hermitage-testing-the-i-in-acid.html>

### Talks

- [The Dutch Seminar on Data Systems Design](https://dsdsd.da.cwi.nl/)

## Libraries for DB

- 🌟 [substrait-io/substrait](https://github.com/substrait-io/substrait): A cross platform way to express data transformation, relational algebra, standardized record expression and plans. <https://substrait.io>
- 🌟 [facebookincubator/velox](https://github.com/facebookincubator/velox): A C++ vectorized database acceleration library aimed to optimizing query engines and data processing systems. <https://facebookincubator.github.io/velox>
- [Fullstop000/wickdb](https://github.com/Fullstop000/wickdb): Pure Rust LSM-tree based embedded storage engine
- [tcdi/pgrx](https://github.com/tcdi/pgrx): Build Postgres Extensions with Rust!
- [sunng87/pgwire](https://github.com/sunng87/pgwire): PostgreSQL wire protocol implemented as a rust library.
- [apache/arrow-ballista](https://github.com/apache/arrow-ballista): Apache Arrow Ballista Distributed Query Engine <https://arrow.apache.org/ballista>
- 🌟 [apache/calcite](https://github.com/apache/calcite): Apache Calcite is a dynamic data management framework. . It provides an industry standard SQL parser and validator, a customisable optimizer with pluggable rules and cost functions, logical and physical algebraic operators, various transformation algorithms from SQL to algebra (and the opposite). <https://calcite.apache.org/>
- [penberg/mvcc-rs](https://github.com/penberg/mvcc-rs): Optimistic multi-version concurrency control (MVCC) for main memory databases, written in Rust.
- 📝 [marsupialtail/quokka](https://github.com/marsupialtail/quokka): Making data lake work for time series <https://marsupialtail.github.io/quokka/>
- [kayak/pypika](https://github.com/kayak/pypika): PyPika is a python SQL query builder that exposes the full richness of the SQL language using a syntax that reflects the resulting query. PyPika excels at all sorts of SQL queries but is especially useful for data analysis. <http://pypika.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>
- [microsoft/verified-storage](https://github.com/microsoft/verified-storage): Storage systems with verified correctness properties

### Practices

- [cmu-db/bustub](https://github.com/cmu-db/bustub): The BusTub Relational Database Management System (Educational) <https://15445.courses.cs.cmu.edu>
- [risinglightdb/risinglight](https://github.com/risinglightdb/risinglight): An OLAP database system for educational purpose
- [erikgrinaker/toydb](https://github.com/erikgrinaker/toydb): Distributed SQL database in Rust, written as a learning project
- [khonsulabs/okaywal](https://github.com/khonsulabs/okaywal): A Write Ahead Log (WAL) implementation in Rust
- [skyzh/write-you-a-vector-db](https://github.com/skyzh/write-you-a-vector-db): A Vector Database Tutorial (over CMU-DB's BusTub system) <https://skyzh.github.io/write-you-a-vector-db/>

## New databases

- [oceanbase/oceanbase](https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase): OceanBase is an enterprise distributed relational database with high availability, high performance, horizontal scalability, and compatibility with SQL standards. <https://open.oceanbase.com/>
- [datafuselabs/databend](https://github.com/datafuselabs/databend): A modern Elasticity and Performance cloud data warehouse, activate your object storage for real-time analytics. <https://databend.rs> (clickhouse in rust?)
- 🌟 [gluesql/gluesql](https://github.com/gluesql/gluesql): GlueSQL is quite sticky, it attaches to anywhere.
- 🌟 [coilhq/tigerbeetle](https://github.com/coilhq/tigerbeetle): A distributed financial accounting database designed for mission critical safety and performance to power the future of financial services. <https://www.tigerbeetle.com>
- [FerretDB/FerretDB](https://github.com/FerretDB/FerretDB): A truly Open Source MongoDB alternative <https://www.ferretdb.io>
- [orioledb/orioledb](https://github.com/orioledb/orioledb): OrioleDB – building a modern cloud-native storage engine (... and solving some PostgreSQL wicked problems)  🇺🇦

### Novel SQLite

- [superfly/litefs](https://github.com/superfly/litefs): FUSE-based file system for replicating SQLite databases across a cluster of machines
- [benbjohnson/litestream](https://github.com/benbjohnson/litestream): Streaming replication for SQLite. <https://litestream.io>
- [canonical/dqlite](https://github.com/canonical/dqlite): Embeddable, replicated and fault tolerant SQL engine. <https://dqlite.io>
- [rqlite/rqlite](https://github.com/rqlite/rqlite): The lightweight, distributed relational database built on SQLite <https://rqlite.io>
- [libsql/libsql](https://github.com/libsql/libsql): libSQL is a fork of SQLite that is both Open Source, and Open Contributions. <https://libsql.org>
- [losfair/mvsqlite](https://github.com/losfair/mvsqlite): Distributed, MVCC SQLite that runs on FoundationDB. <https://mvsqlite-docs.univalence.me>
- [vlcn-io/cr-sqlite](https://github.com/vlcn-io/cr-sqlite): Convergent, Replicated SQLite. Multi-writer and CRDT support for SQLite <https://vlcn.io/>
- [Expensify/Bedrock](https://github.com/Expensify/Bedrock): Rock solid distributed database specializing in active/active automatic failover and WAN replication <https://bedrockdb.com>
- [SQLite Cloud](https://sqlitecloud.io/): Cloud-share any SQLite database in no time

### Timeseries & Graph

- [influxdata/influxdb_iox](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb_iox): Pronounced (influxdb eye-ox), short for iron oxide. This is the new core of InfluxDB written in Rust on top of Apache Arrow.
- [cnosdb/cnosdb](https://github.com/cnosdb/cnosdb): An Open Source Distributed Time Series Database with high performance, high compression ratio and high usability. <https://www.cnosdb.com>
- [surrealdb/surrealdb](https://github.com/surrealdb/surrealdb): A scalable, distributed, collaborative, document-graph database, for the realtime web <https://surrealdb.com>
- [cozodb/cozo](https://github.com/cozodb/cozo): A transactional, relational-graph-vector database that uses Datalog for query. The hippocampus for AI! <https://cozodb.org>
- [TuGraph-family/tugraph-db](https://github.com/TuGraph-family/tugraph-db): TuGraph is a high performance graph database. <https://tugraph.org>
- [memgraph/memgraph](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph): Open-source graph database, built for real-time streaming data, compatible with Neo4j. <https://memgraph.com>
- [Netflix/atlas](https://github.com/Netflix/atlas): In-memory dimensional time series database.

### KV

- 🌟 [facebook/rocksdb](https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb): A library that provides an embeddable, persistent key-value store for fast storage. <http://rocksdb.org>
- 🌟 [apple/foundationdb](https://github.com/apple/foundationdb): FoundationDB - the open source, distributed, transactional key-value store <https://www.foundationdb.org>
- 🌟 [spacejam/sled](https://github.com/spacejam/sled): the champagne of beta embedded databases
- [microsoft/FASTER](https://github.com/microsoft/FASTER): Fast persistent recoverable log and key-value store + cache, in C# and C++. <https://aka.ms/FASTER>
- [speedb-io/speedb](https://github.com/speedb-io/speedb): A RocksDB compliant high performance scalable embedded key-value store <https://www.speedb.io/>

### Cache

- [dragonflydb/dragonfly](https://github.com/dragonflydb/dragonfly): A modern replacement for Redis and Memcached <https://dragonflydb.io/>
- [Snapchat/KeyDB](https://github.com/Snapchat/KeyDB): A Multithreaded Fork of Redis <https://keydb.dev>

### Vector

- [qdrant/qdrant](https://github.com/qdrant/qdrant): Qdrant - Vector Database for the next generation of AI applications <https://qdrant.tech>
  - [tyrchen/qdrant-lib](https://github.com/tyrchen/qdrant-lib): Extract core logic from qdrant and make it available as a library.
- [Pinecone](https://www.pinecone.io/): The Pinecone vector database makes it easy to build high-performance vector search applications. Developer-friendly, fully managed, and easily scalable without infrastructure hassles.
- [milvus-io/milvus](https://github.com/milvus-io/milvus): Vector database for scalable similarity search and AI applications. <https://milvus.io> <https://zilliz.com>
- [jdagdelen/hyperDB](https://github.com/jdagdelen/hyperDB): A hyper-fast local vector database for use with LLM Agents.
- [chroma-core/chroma](https://github.com/chroma-core/chroma): the AI-native open-source embedding database <https://www.trychroma.com>

🌟 You may don't need a vector database, just use a vector index library:

- [pgvector/pgvector](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector): Open-source vector similarity search for Postgres
- [tensorchord/pgvecto.rs](https://github.com/tensorchord/pgvecto.rs): Vector database plugin for Postgres, written in Rust
- [asg017/sqlite-vss](https://github.com/asg017/sqlite-vss): A SQLite extension for efficient vector search, based on Faiss!

### Postgres

- [readysettech/readyset](https://github.com/readysettech/readyset): ReadySet is a lightweight SQL caching engine written in Rust that helps developers enhance the performance and scalability of existing applications. <https://readyset.io>
  - [mit-pdos/noria](https://github.com/mit-pdos/noria): Fast web applications through dynamic, partially-stateful dataflow
- [yugabyte/yugabyte-db](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db): YugabyteDB - the cloud native distributed SQL database for mission-critical applications. <https://www.yugabyte.com>
- [neondatabase/neon](https://github.com/neondatabase/neon): Neon: Serverless Postgres. We separated storage and compute to offer autoscaling, branching, and bottomless storage. <https://neon.tech>
- [HydrasDB/hydra](https://github.com/HydrasDB/hydra): The open source Snowflake alternative. OLAP Postgres <https://hydra.so>
- [CrunchyData/postgres-operator](https://github.com/CrunchyData/postgres-operator): Production PostgreSQL for Kubernetes, from high availability Postgres clusters to full-scale database-as-a-service. <https://access.crunchydata.com/documentation/postgres-operator/v5>
- [sorintlab/stolon](https://github.com/sorintlab/stolon): PostgreSQL cloud native High Availability and more. <https://talk.stolon.io>
- [CoreDB-io/coredb](https://github.com/CoreDB-io/coredb): Postgres for Everything <http://coredb.io>

### In-memory

- [Rustixir/darkbird](https://github.com/Rustixir/darkbird): High concurrency, Real time, In-memory storage inspired by erlang mnesia
- [chdb-io/chdb](https://github.com/chdb-io/chdb): chDB is an embedded OLAP SQL Engine powered by ClickHouse
- [duckdb/duckdb](https://github.com/duckdb/duckdb): DuckDB is an in-process SQL OLAP Database Management System <http://www.duckdb.org>
  - [davidgasquez/awesome-duckdb](https://github.com/davidgasquez/awesome-duckdb): 🦆 A curated list of awesome DuckDB resources

## DBA or Extensions

- [metalbear-co/mirrord](https://github.com/metalbear-co/mirrord): mirrord lets you easily mirror traffic from your production environment to your development environment.
- [Qovery/Replibyte](https://github.com/Qovery/Replibyte): Seed your development database with real data ⚡️ <https://www.replibyte.com>
- [bytebase/bytebase](https://github.com/bytebase/bytebase): Safe database schema change and version control for DevOps teams. <https://www.bytebase.com>
- [flyway/flyway](https://github.com/flyway/flyway): Flyway by Redgate • Database Migrations Made Easy. <https://flywaydb.org>
- [wal-g/wal-g](https://github.com/wal-g/wal-g): Archival and Restoration for databases in the Cloud
- [datafold/data-diff](https://github.com/datafold/data-diff): Efficiently diff data in or across relational databases <https://www.datafold.com/blog/open-source-data-diff>
- [centerofci/mathesar](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar): Web application providing an intuitive user experience to databases. <https://mathesar.org>
- [mgramin/awesome-db-tools](https://github.com/mgramin/awesome-db-tools): Everything that makes working with databases easier
- [PostHog/HouseWatch](https://github.com/PostHog/HouseWatch): Open source tool for monitoring and managing ClickHouse clusters
- 🌟 [sqlmapproject/sqlmap](https://github.com/sqlmapproject/sqlmap): Automatic SQL injection and database takeover tool <http://sqlmap.org>

### ERD

- [pgmodeler/pgmodeler](https://github.com/pgmodeler/pgmodeler): Open-source data modeling tool designed for PostgreSQL. No more typing DDL commands. Let pgModeler do the work for you! <https://pgmodeler.io>
- [azimuttapp/azimutt](https://github.com/azimuttapp/azimutt): Next-Gen ERD: Design, Explore, Document and Analyze your database <https://azimutt.app?ref=github-repo>
- [Wisser/Jailer](https://github.com/Wisser/Jailer): Database Subsetting and Relational Data Browsing Tool. <https://wisser.github.io/Jailer>

### PG

- [zalando/patroni](https://github.com/zalando/patroni): A template for PostgreSQL High Availability with Etcd, Consul, ZooKeeper, or Kubernetes
- [levkk/pgcat](https://github.com/levkk/pgcat): PostgreSQL pooler with sharding, load balancing and failover support.
- [EnterpriseDB/barman](https://github.com/EnterpriseDB/barman): Barman - Backup and Recovery Manager for PostgreSQL <https://www.pgbarman.org>
- [yandex/odyssey](https://github.com/yandex/odyssey): Scalable PostgreSQL connection pooler
- [ankane/pghero](https://github.com/ankane/pghero): A performance dashboard for Postgres
- [aiven/pgtracer](https://github.com/aiven/pgtracer): Tracing tools for PostgreSQL, using eBPF
- [oguimbal/pg-mem](https://github.com/oguimbal/pg-mem): An in memory postgres DB instance for your unit tests
- [supabase/pg_jsonschema](https://github.com/supabase/pg_jsonschema): PostgreSQL extension providing JSON Schema validation
- [supabase/postgres](https://github.com/supabase/postgres): Unmodified Postgres with some useful plugins
- 🌟 [Vonng/pigsty](https://github.com/Vonng/pigsty): PostgreSQL in Great STYle, Battery-Included Free RDS Alternative! <https://pigsty.cc>
- 🌟 [supabase/dbdev](https://github.com/supabase/dbdev): Database Package Registry for Postgres <https://database.dev>
- [pgpartman/pg_partman](https://github.com/pgpartman/pg_partman): Partition management extension for PostgreSQL
- [postgrespro/aqo](https://github.com/postgrespro/aqo): Adaptive query optimization for PostgreSQL
- 🌟 [PostgreSQL Configurator](https://pgconfigurator.cybertec-postgresql.com)
- [pgadmin-org/pgadmin4](https://github.com/pgadmin-org/pgadmin4): pgAdmin is the most popular and feature rich Open Source administration and development platform for PostgreSQL, the most advanced Open Source database in the world. <https://www.pgadmin.org>
- [zalando/spilo](https://github.com/zalando/spilo): Highly available elephant herd: HA PostgreSQL cluster using Docker
- [tembo-io/pgmq](https://github.com/tembo-io/pgmq): A lightweight message queue. Like AWS SQS and RSMQ but on Postgres.
  - [Anatomy of a Postgres extension written in Rust: pgmq](https://tembo.io/blog/postgres-extension-in-rust-pgmq)
- [supabase/postgres_lsp](https://github.com/supabase/postgres_lsp): A Language Server for Postgres <https://supabase.com>
- [ChenHuajun/pg_roaringbitmap](https://github.com/ChenHuajun/pg_roaringbitmap): RoaringBitmap extension for PostgreSQL
- [omnigres/omnigres](https://github.com/omnigres/omnigres): Postgres as a Platform
- [bensheldon/good_job](https://github.com/bensheldon/good_job): Multithreaded, Postgres-based, Active Job backend for Ruby on Rails. <https://goodjob-demo.herokuapp.com/>
- [citusdata/pg_cron](https://github.com/citusdata/pg_cron): Run periodic jobs in PostgreSQL
- [reorg/pg_repack](https://github.com/reorg/pg_repack): Reorganize tables in PostgreSQL databases with minimal locks
- [PostgresQL Docs - Appendix F. Additional Supplied Modules and Extensions](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/contrib.html)
  - [F.28. pgcrypto — cryptographic functions](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/pgcrypto.html)
  - [F.32. pg_stat_statements — track statistics of SQL planning and execution](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/pgstatstatements.html)
  - [F.35. pg_trgm — support for similarity of text using trigram matching](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/pgtrgm.html)
  - [F.49. uuid-ossp — a UUID generator](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/uuid-ossp.html)
- [Beyond the Basics: Exploring PostgreSQL Extensions](https://www.timescale.com/learn/postgresql-extensions)
  - amcheck
  - hstore
  - ltree
  - pgcrypto
  - pg_stat_statements
  - pg_trgm
  - pgvector
  - uuid-ossp

### SQLite

- [nalgeon/sqlean](https://github.com/nalgeon/sqlean): The ultimate set of SQLite extensions
- [nalgeon/sqlpkg](https://github.com/nalgeon/sqlpkg): SQLite package registry <https://sqlpkg.org>

## Benchmark

- [ClickHouse/ClickBench](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickBench): ClickBench: a Benchmark For Analytical Databases <https://benchmark.clickhouse.com/>
- [qdrant/vector-db-benchmark](https://github.com/qdrant/vector-db-benchmark): <https://qdrant.tech/benchmarks>
- [duckdblabs/db-benchmark](https://github.com/duckdblabs/db-benchmark): reproducible benchmark of database-like ops <https://duckdblabs.github.io/db-benchmark/>
- [sqlbench-ds](https://github.com/sql-benchmarks/sqlbench-ds): SQL Benchmark derived from TPC-DS

## In a SQL way

- [thevahidal/soul](https://github.com/thevahidal/soul): 🕉 A SQLite REST and realtime server
- [splitgraph/seafowl](https://github.com/splitgraph/seafowl): Analytical database for data-driven Web applications <https://seafowl.io>
- [osquery/osquery](https://github.com/osquery/osquery): SQL powered operating system instrumentation, monitoring, and analytics. <https://osquery.io>
