long-game/fp.md, before:

# The Curse of Strong Typing

## Books

- [winitzki/sofp](https://github.com/winitzki/sofp): A free book: "The Science
  of Functional Programming"
- [Steve Awodey's GitHub pages](https://awodey.github.io/): _Homotopy Type
  Theory: Univalent Foundations of Mathematics_ and _Category Theory_
- 🌟 [liuxinyu95/AlgoXY](https://github.com/liuxinyu95/AlgoXY): Book of
  Elementary Algorithms and Data structures
- 🌟 [liuxinyu95/unplugged](https://github.com/liuxinyu95/unplugged): Open book
  about math and programming.
- [Trebor-Huang/history](https://github.com/Trebor-Huang/history): History of
  type theory (Chinese).
- [typeclasses/haskell-phrasebook](https://github.com/typeclasses/haskell-phrasebook):
  The Haskell Phrasebook: a quick intro to Haskell via small annotated example
  programs <https://typeclasses.com/phrasebook>
- [abuseofnotation/category-theory-illustrated](https://github.com/abuseofnotation/category-theory-illustrated):
  A book about category theory
  <https://abuseofnotation.github.io/category-theory-illustrated/>
- [haskellfoundation/hs-opt-handbook.github.io](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/hs-opt-handbook.github.io):
  The Haskell Optimization Handbook
  <https://haskell.foundation/hs-opt-handbook.github.io/>
- [lazear/types-and-programming-languages](https://github.com/lazear/types-and-programming-languages):
  Exercises from Benjamin Pierce's "Types and Programming Languages" textbook +
  extras!
- [Elements of Programming](http://elementsofprogramming.com/): Decomposing
  programs into a system of algorithmic components
- [GuoYaxiang/craftinginterpreters_zh](https://github.com/GuoYaxiang/craftinginterpreters_zh):
  手撸解释器教程《Crafting Interpreters》中文翻译

### Resources

- [stevana/armstrong-distributed-systems](https://github.com/stevana/armstrong-distributed-systems)
- [darrenjw/fp-ssc-course](https://github.com/darrenjw/fp-ssc-course): An
  introduction to functional programming for scalable statistical computing
- [haskell-beginners-2022/course-plan](https://github.com/haskell-beginners-2022/course-plan):
  📜 Haskell course info, plan, video lectures, slides
- [graninas/functional-declarative-design-methodology](https://github.com/graninas/functional-declarative-design-methodology):
  Article: Functional Declarative Design
- 🌟 [damianfral/ghcaniuse](https://github.com/damianfral/ghcaniuse): GHC
  language extensions table <https://damianfral.github.io/ghcaniuse/>
- [nuprl/10PL](https://github.com/nuprl/10PL): 10 papers that all PhD students
  in programming languages ought to know, for some value of 10

## Effect system

- [ocaml-multicore/eio](https://github.com/ocaml-multicore/eio):Effects-based
  direct-style IO for multicore OCaml
- [haskell-effectful/effectful](https://github.com/haskell-effectful/effectful):
  An easy to use, fast extensible effects library with seamless integration with
  the existing Haskell ecosystem.
- [lexi-lambda/eff](https://github.com/lexi-lambda/eff): 🚧 a work in progress
  effect system for Haskell 🚧
- [Effect Handlers for WebAssembly](https://wasmfx.dev/)
- [JeanHuguesdeRaigniac/effects-landscape](https://github.com/JeanHuguesdeRaigniac/effects-landscape):
  Effects libraries in Haskell
- 🌟
  [fused-effects/fused-effects](https://github.com/fused-effects/fused-effects):
  A fast, flexible, fused effect system for Haskell #zio

## PL

- [jwiegley/category-theory](https://github.com/jwiegley/category-theory): An
  axiom-free formalization of category theory in Coq for personal study and
  practical work
- [Category Theory in Coq](http://www.megacz.com/berkeley/coq-categories/): This
  is a quick page I've thrown together for my Coq library formalizing basic
  category theory. The development follows Steve Awodey's book on category
  theory; the files are named after chapters and subchapters of that book for
  easy reference.
- [ast-grep/ast-grep](https://github.com/ast-grep/ast-grep): ⚡A fast and
  polyglot tool for code searching, linting, rewriting at large scale. Written
  in Rust <https://ast-grep.github.io>

## Haskell

- [kowainik/relude](https://github.com/kowainik/relude): 🌀 Safe, performant,
  user-friendly and lightweight Haskell standard library
  <https://kowainik.github.io/projects/relude>
- [commercialhaskell/rio](https://github.com/commercialhaskell/rio): A standard
  library for Haskell
- [fpco/unliftio](https://github.com/fpco/unliftio): The MonadUnliftIO typeclass
  for unlifting monads to IO
- [composewell/streamly](https://github.com/composewell/streamly): Dataflow
  programming and declarative concurrency <https://streamly.composewell.com>
- [well-typed/optics](https://github.com/well-typed/optics): Optics as an
  abstract interface
- [chshersh/dr-cabal](https://github.com/chshersh/dr-cabal): 📊 Haskell
  dependencies build times profiler
- [ekmett/structs](https://github.com/ekmett/structs): Exploring how to make a
  strict imperative universe in the GHC runtime system.

### CLI

- [chshersh/iris](https://github.com/chshersh/iris): 🌈 Haskell CLI Framework
  supporting Command Line Interface Guidelines
- [pcapriotti/optparse-applicative](https://github.com/pcapriotti/optparse-applicative):
  Applicative option parser

### Web

- [monadicsystems/okapi](https://github.com/monadicsystems/okapi): A web
  microframework for Haskell based on monadic parsing <https://www.okapi.wiki>
- [reflex-frp/reflex](https://github.com/reflex-frp/reflex): Interactive
  programs without callbacks or side-effects. Functional Reactive Programming
  (FRP) uses composable events and time-varying values to describe interactive
  systems as pure functions. Just like other pure functional code, functional
  reactive code is easier to get right on the first try, maintain, and reuse.
  <https://reflex-frp.org>
- [obsidiansystems/obelisk](https://github.com/obsidiansystems/obelisk):
  Functional reactive web and mobile applications, with batteries included.
  <https://reflex-frp.org>

### Other good libs

- [ndmitchell/shake](https://github.com/ndmitchell/shake): Shake build system
  <http://shakebuild.com>
- [dhall-lang/dhall-haskell](https://github.com/dhall-lang/dhall-haskell):
  Maintainable configuration files <https://dhall-lang.org>
- [diagrams/diagrams](https://github.com/diagrams/diagrams): Embedded
  domain-specific language for declarative vector graphics (wrapper package)
- 🌟 [deadpendency/deadpendency](https://github.com/deadpendency/deadpendency):
  Check if my repo's dependencies are dead (projects)!
  <https://deadpendency.com/>

## Typescript

- [gcanti/fp-ts](https://github.com/gcanti/fp-ts): Functional programming in
  TypeScript
- [Effect-TS/effect](https://github.com/Effect-TS/effect): A fully-fledged
  functional effect system for TypeScript with a rich standard library
  <https://effect-ts.github.io/effect>
- [gigobyte/purify](https://github.com/gigobyte/purify): Functional programming
  library for TypeScript <https://gigobyte.github.io/purify>

## Experimental languages

- [koka-lang/koka](https://github.com/koka-lang/koka): Koka language compiler
  and interpreter <https://koka-lang.org>
- [Kindelia/HVM](https://github.com/Kindelia/HVM): A massively parallel, optimal
  functional runtime in Rust
- [google-research/dex-lang](https://github.com/google-research/dex-lang):
  Research language for array processing in the Haskell/ML family
- [unisonweb/unison](https://github.com/unisonweb/unison): A friendly
  programming language from the future <https://unison-lang.org>
- [effekt-lang/effekt](https://github.com/effekt-lang/effekt): A research
  language with effect handlers and lightweight effect polymorphism
  <https://effekt-lang.org/>
- [HigherOrderCO/Kind](https://github.com/HigherOrderCO/Kind): A next-gen
  functional language <https://kindelia.org/>
- [inko-lang/inko](https://github.com/inko-lang/inko): A language for building
  concurrent software with confidence <http://inko-lang.org/>

Commit message:

Add flux, Haskell for Readers, rke2

long-game/fp.md, after:

# The Curse of Strong Typing

## Books

- [winitzki/sofp](https://github.com/winitzki/sofp): A free book: "The Science
  of Functional Programming"
- [Steve Awodey's GitHub pages](https://awodey.github.io/): _Homotopy Type
  Theory: Univalent Foundations of Mathematics_ and _Category Theory_
- 🌟 [liuxinyu95/AlgoXY](https://github.com/liuxinyu95/AlgoXY): Book of
  Elementary Algorithms and Data structures
- 🌟 [liuxinyu95/unplugged](https://github.com/liuxinyu95/unplugged): Open book
  about math and programming.
- [Trebor-Huang/history](https://github.com/Trebor-Huang/history): History of
  type theory (Chinese).
- [typeclasses/haskell-phrasebook](https://github.com/typeclasses/haskell-phrasebook):
  The Haskell Phrasebook: a quick intro to Haskell via small annotated example
  programs <https://typeclasses.com/phrasebook>
- [abuseofnotation/category-theory-illustrated](https://github.com/abuseofnotation/category-theory-illustrated):
  A book about category theory
  <https://abuseofnotation.github.io/category-theory-illustrated/>
- [haskellfoundation/hs-opt-handbook.github.io](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/hs-opt-handbook.github.io):
  The Haskell Optimization Handbook
  <https://haskell.foundation/hs-opt-handbook.github.io/>
- [lazear/types-and-programming-languages](https://github.com/lazear/types-and-programming-languages):
  Exercises from Benjamin Pierce's "Types and Programming Languages" textbook +
  extras!
- [Elements of Programming](http://elementsofprogramming.com/): Decomposing
  programs into a system of algorithmic components
- [GuoYaxiang/craftinginterpreters_zh](https://github.com/GuoYaxiang/craftinginterpreters_zh):
  手撸解释器教程《Crafting Interpreters》中文翻译
- [Haskell for Readers](https://haskell-for-readers.nomeata.de/): Welcome to the
  lecture series “Haskell for Readers”. This workshop is uniquely tailored to
  those who need to read, rather than write Haskell code: auditors, scientists,
  managers, testers etc.

### Resources

- [stevana/armstrong-distributed-systems](https://github.com/stevana/armstrong-distributed-systems)
- [darrenjw/fp-ssc-course](https://github.com/darrenjw/fp-ssc-course): An
  introduction to functional programming for scalable statistical computing
- [haskell-beginners-2022/course-plan](https://github.com/haskell-beginners-2022/course-plan):
  📜 Haskell course info, plan, video lectures, slides
- [graninas/functional-declarative-design-methodology](https://github.com/graninas/functional-declarative-design-methodology):
  Article: Functional Declarative Design
- 🌟 [damianfral/ghcaniuse](https://github.com/damianfral/ghcaniuse): GHC
  language extensions table <https://damianfral.github.io/ghcaniuse/>
- [nuprl/10PL](https://github.com/nuprl/10PL): 10 papers that all PhD students
  in programming languages ought to know, for some value of 10

## Effect system

- [ocaml-multicore/eio](https://github.com/ocaml-multicore/eio):Effects-based
  direct-style IO for multicore OCaml
- [haskell-effectful/effectful](https://github.com/haskell-effectful/effectful):
  An easy to use, fast extensible effects library with seamless integration with
  the existing Haskell ecosystem.
- [lexi-lambda/eff](https://github.com/lexi-lambda/eff): 🚧 a work in progress
  effect system for Haskell 🚧
- [Effect Handlers for WebAssembly](https://wasmfx.dev/)
- [JeanHuguesdeRaigniac/effects-landscape](https://github.com/JeanHuguesdeRaigniac/effects-landscape):
  Effects libraries in Haskell
- 🌟
  [fused-effects/fused-effects](https://github.com/fused-effects/fused-effects):
  A fast, flexible, fused effect system for Haskell #zio

## PL

- [jwiegley/category-theory](https://github.com/jwiegley/category-theory): An
  axiom-free formalization of category theory in Coq for personal study and
  practical work
- [Category Theory in Coq](http://www.megacz.com/berkeley/coq-categories/): This
  is a quick page I've thrown together for my Coq library formalizing basic
  category theory. The development follows Steve Awodey's book on category
  theory; the files are named after chapters and subchapters of that book for
  easy reference.
- [ast-grep/ast-grep](https://github.com/ast-grep/ast-grep): ⚡A fast and
  polyglot tool for code searching, linting, rewriting at large scale. Written
  in Rust <https://ast-grep.github.io>

## Haskell

- [kowainik/relude](https://github.com/kowainik/relude): 🌀 Safe, performant,
  user-friendly and lightweight Haskell standard library
  <https://kowainik.github.io/projects/relude>
- [commercialhaskell/rio](https://github.com/commercialhaskell/rio): A standard
  library for Haskell
- [fpco/unliftio](https://github.com/fpco/unliftio): The MonadUnliftIO typeclass
  for unlifting monads to IO
- [composewell/streamly](https://github.com/composewell/streamly): Dataflow
  programming and declarative concurrency <https://streamly.composewell.com>
- [well-typed/optics](https://github.com/well-typed/optics): Optics as an
  abstract interface
- [chshersh/dr-cabal](https://github.com/chshersh/dr-cabal): 📊 Haskell
  dependencies build times profiler
- [ekmett/structs](https://github.com/ekmett/structs): Exploring how to make a
  strict imperative universe in the GHC runtime system.

### CLI

- [chshersh/iris](https://github.com/chshersh/iris): 🌈 Haskell CLI Framework
  supporting Command Line Interface Guidelines
- [pcapriotti/optparse-applicative](https://github.com/pcapriotti/optparse-applicative):
  Applicative option parser

### Web

- [monadicsystems/okapi](https://github.com/monadicsystems/okapi): A web
  microframework for Haskell based on monadic parsing <https://www.okapi.wiki>
- [reflex-frp/reflex](https://github.com/reflex-frp/reflex): Interactive
  programs without callbacks or side-effects. Functional Reactive Programming
  (FRP) uses composable events and time-varying values to describe interactive
  systems as pure functions. Just like other pure functional code, functional
  reactive code is easier to get right on the first try, maintain, and reuse.
  <https://reflex-frp.org>
- [obsidiansystems/obelisk](https://github.com/obsidiansystems/obelisk):
  Functional reactive web and mobile applications, with batteries included.
  <https://reflex-frp.org>

### Other good libs

- [ndmitchell/shake](https://github.com/ndmitchell/shake): Shake build system
  <http://shakebuild.com>
- [dhall-lang/dhall-haskell](https://github.com/dhall-lang/dhall-haskell):
  Maintainable configuration files <https://dhall-lang.org>
- [diagrams/diagrams](https://github.com/diagrams/diagrams): Embedded
  domain-specific language for declarative vector graphics (wrapper package)
- 🌟 [deadpendency/deadpendency](https://github.com/deadpendency/deadpendency):
  Check if my repo's dependencies are dead (projects)!
  <https://deadpendency.com/>
- [tweag/capability](https://github.com/tweag/capability): Extensional
  capabilities and deriving combinators

## Typescript

- [gcanti/fp-ts](https://github.com/gcanti/fp-ts): Functional programming in
  TypeScript
- [Effect-TS/effect](https://github.com/Effect-TS/effect): A fully-fledged
  functional effect system for TypeScript with a rich standard library
  <https://effect-ts.github.io/effect>
- [gigobyte/purify](https://github.com/gigobyte/purify): Functional programming
  library for TypeScript <https://gigobyte.github.io/purify>

## Experimental languages

- [koka-lang/koka](https://github.com/koka-lang/koka): Koka language compiler
  and interpreter <https://koka-lang.org>
- [Kindelia/HVM](https://github.com/Kindelia/HVM): A massively parallel, optimal
  functional runtime in Rust
- [google-research/dex-lang](https://github.com/google-research/dex-lang):
  Research language for array processing in the Haskell/ML family
- [unisonweb/unison](https://github.com/unisonweb/unison): A friendly
  programming language from the future <https://unison-lang.org>
- [effekt-lang/effekt](https://github.com/effekt-lang/effekt): A research
  language with effect handlers and lightweight effect polymorphism
  <https://effekt-lang.org/>
- [HigherOrderCO/Kind](https://github.com/HigherOrderCO/Kind): A next-gen
  functional language <https://kindelia.org/>
- [inko-lang/inko](https://github.com/inko-lang/inko): A language for building
  concurrent software with confidence <http://inko-lang.org/>
