long-game/research.md, before:

# Research

## Resources

- [dair-ai/ML-Papers-Explained](https://github.com/dair-ai/ML-Papers-Explained):
  Explanation to key concepts in ML
- [ascendho/Linear-Algebra-and-Its-Applications](https://github.com/ascendho/Linear-Algebra-and-Its-Applications):
  Linear Algebra and Its Application(5th version)《线性代数及其应用》案例学习、
  项目、应用、练习题、代码、笔记、教材等
  <https://ascendho.github.io/Linear-Algebra-and-Its-Applications>
- [illustrated-machine-learning/illustrated-machine-learning.github.io](https://github.com/illustrated-machine-learning/illustrated-machine-learning.github.io):
  Website containing illustrations about Machine Learning theory!
  <https://illustrated-machine-learning.github.io>
- [soulmachine/machine-learning-cheat-sheet](https://github.com/soulmachine/machine-learning-cheat-sheet):
  Classical equations and diagrams in machine learning <http://soulmachine.me>
- [harvardnlp/annotated-transformer](https://github.com/harvardnlp/annotated-transformer):
  An annotated implementation of the Transformer paper.
  <http://nlp.seas.harvard.edu/annotated-transformer>
- [labmlai/annotated_deep_learning_paper_implementations](https://github.com/labmlai/annotated_deep_learning_paper_implementations):
  🧑‍🏫 60 Implementations/tutorials of deep learning papers with side-by-side
  notes 📝; including transformers (original, xl, switch, feedback, vit, ...),
  optimizers (adam, adabelief, sophia, ...), gans(cyclegan, stylegan2, ...), 🎮
  reinforcement learning (ppo, dqn), capsnet, distillation, ... 🧠
  <https://nn.labml.ai>
- [vdumoulin/conv_arithmetic](https://github.com/vdumoulin/conv_arithmetic): A
  technical report on convolution arithmetic in the context of deep learning
- [How GPT3 Works - Visualizations and Animations](https://jalammar.github.io/how-gpt3-works-visualizations-animations/)
- [learn-anything/research-papers](https://github.com/learn-anything/research-papers):
  Awesome Research Papers
- [mli/paper-reading](https://github.com/mli/paper-reading): 深度学习经典、新论
  文逐段精读
- [dataflowr/notebooks](https://github.com/dataflowr/notebooks): code for deep
  learning courses <http://www.dataflowr.com/>
- [bgavran/Category_Theory_Machine_Learning](https://github.com/bgavran/Category_Theory_Machine_Learning):
  List of papers studying machine learning through the lens of category theory
- [datawhalechina/leedl-tutorial](https://github.com/datawhalechina/leedl-tutorial):
  《李宏毅深度学习教程》
- [强化学习 100 题 - by 斎藤 康毅 (Koki Saitoh)](https://p100.koki-saitoh.com/zh-CN)
- [xiaolincoder/CS-Base](https://github.com/xiaolincoder/CS-Base): 图解计算机网
  络、操作系统、计算机组成、数据库，共 1000 张图 + 50 万字，破除晦涩难懂的计算机
  基础知识，让天下没有难懂的八股文！🚀 <https://xiaolincoding.com>

## Books

- [probml/pml-book](https://github.com/probml/pml-book): "Probabilistic Machine
  Learning" - a book series by Kevin Murphy
  https://probml.github.io/pml-book/book2.html
- [mml-book/mml-book.github.io](https://github.com/mml-book/mml-book.github.io):
  Companion webpage to the book "Mathematics For Machine Learning"
  [pdf download](https://mml-book.com)
- [CamDavidsonPilon/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers](https://github.com/CamDavidsonPilon/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers):
  aka "Bayesian Methods for Hackers": An introduction to Bayesian methods +
  probabilistic programming with a computation/understanding-first,
  mathematics-second point of view. All in pure Python ;)
  - [page](http://camdavidsonpilon.github.io/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers/)
- [AllenDowney/ThinkComplexity2](https://github.com/AllenDowney/ThinkComplexity2):
  Book and code for Think Complexity, 2nd edition
  - [page](https://allendowney.github.io/ThinkComplexity2/)
- [Probabilistic Numerics](https://www.probabilistic-numerics.org/textbooks/)
- [Convex Optimization](https://web.stanford.edu/~boyd/cvxbook/): A MOOC on
  convex optimization, CVX101. If you register for it, you can access all the
  course materials. More material can be found at the web sites for EE364A
  (Stanford) or EE236B (UCLA), and our own web pages.
- 🌟 [udlbook/udlbook](https://github.com/udlbook/udlbook): Understanding Deep
  Learning - Simon J.D. Prince
- [nndl/nndl.github.io](https://github.com/nndl/nndl.github.io): 《神经网络与深
  度学习》 邱锡鹏著 Neural Network and Deep Learning <https://nndl.github.io/>
- [Visualize-ML/Book3_Fundamentals-of-Mathematics](https://github.com/Visualize-ML/Book3_Fundamentals-of-Mathematics):
  《数学要素》，清华社五审五校中；Github 稿件基本稳定，欢迎提意见，会及时修改
- [kenjihiranabe/The-Art-of-Linear-Algebra](https://github.com/kenjihiranabe/The-Art-of-Linear-Algebra):
  Graphic notes on Gilbert Strang's "Linear Algebra for Everyone"

## Novel approaches

- [janosh/awesome-normalizing-flows](https://github.com/janosh/awesome-normalizing-flows):
  Awesome resources on normalizing flows.
- 🌟 [lmcinnes/umap](https://github.com/lmcinnes/umap): Uniform Manifold
  Approximation and Projection

### Workshop

- [Differentiable Almost Everything: Differentiable Relaxations, Algorithms, Operators, and Simulators](https://differentiable.xyz)
- [Structured Probabilistic Inference and Generative Modeling](https://icml.cc/virtual/2023/workshop/21469)

### PDE / ODE

- [microsoft/pdearena](https://github.com/microsoft/pdearena): A modern,
  scalable, and easy to use PDE Surrogate Benchmarking Framework.
  <https://microsoft.github.io/pdearena>
- 🌟
  [Zymrael/awesome-neural-ode](https://github.com/Zymrael/awesome-neural-ode): A
  collection of resources regarding the interplay between differential
  equations, deep learning, dynamical systems, control and numerical methods.

## Misc

- [gpoore/minted](https://github.com/gpoore/minted): minted is a LaTeX package
  that provides syntax highlighting using the Pygments library. Highlighted
  source code can be customized using fancyvrb.
- [roaldarbol/LaPreprint](https://github.com/roaldarbol/LaPreprint): 📝 A nicely
  formatted LaTeX preprint template
- [citation-js/citation-js](https://github.com/citation-js/citation-js): Core
  functionality of Citation.js, as well as the original plugins (CSL, BibTeX,
  RIS, DOI, Wikidata, and BibJSON) <https://citation.js.org>
- [typst/typst](https://github.com/typst/typst): A new markup-based typesetting
  system that is powerful and easy to learn. <https://typst.app>
- [nvarner/typst-lsp](https://github.com/nvarner/typst-lsp): A brand-new
  language server for Typst, plus a VS Code extension
- [google/latexify_py](https://github.com/google/latexify_py): Generates LaTeX
  math description from Python functions.
- [papis/papis](https://github.com/papis/papis): Powerful and highly extensible
  command-line based document and bibliography manager.
  <http://papis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>
- [wklchris/Note-by-LaTeX](https://github.com/wklchris/Note-by-LaTeX): 《简单粗
  暴 LaTeX》出版图书开源仓库 | The opensource repo for my published LaTeX book.
- [jlegewie/zotfile](https://github.com/jlegewie/zotfile): Zotero plugin to
  manage your attachments: automatically rename, move, and attach PDFs (or other
  files) to Zotero items, sync PDFs from your Zotero library to your (mobile)
  PDF reader (e.g. an iPad, Android tablet, etc.), and extract PDF annotations.

Commit message:

Add sbt-crossproject, parquet4s and Linear Algebra Done Right

long-game/research.md, after:

# Research

## Resources

- [dair-ai/ML-Papers-Explained](https://github.com/dair-ai/ML-Papers-Explained):
  Explanation to key concepts in ML
- [ascendho/Linear-Algebra-and-Its-Applications](https://github.com/ascendho/Linear-Algebra-and-Its-Applications):
  Linear Algebra and Its Application(5th version)《线性代数及其应用》案例学习、
  项目、应用、练习题、代码、笔记、教材等
  <https://ascendho.github.io/Linear-Algebra-and-Its-Applications>
- [illustrated-machine-learning/illustrated-machine-learning.github.io](https://github.com/illustrated-machine-learning/illustrated-machine-learning.github.io):
  Website containing illustrations about Machine Learning theory!
  <https://illustrated-machine-learning.github.io>
- [soulmachine/machine-learning-cheat-sheet](https://github.com/soulmachine/machine-learning-cheat-sheet):
  Classical equations and diagrams in machine learning <http://soulmachine.me>
- [harvardnlp/annotated-transformer](https://github.com/harvardnlp/annotated-transformer):
  An annotated implementation of the Transformer paper.
  <http://nlp.seas.harvard.edu/annotated-transformer>
- [labmlai/annotated_deep_learning_paper_implementations](https://github.com/labmlai/annotated_deep_learning_paper_implementations):
  🧑‍🏫 60 Implementations/tutorials of deep learning papers with side-by-side
  notes 📝; including transformers (original, xl, switch, feedback, vit, ...),
  optimizers (adam, adabelief, sophia, ...), gans(cyclegan, stylegan2, ...), 🎮
  reinforcement learning (ppo, dqn), capsnet, distillation, ... 🧠
  <https://nn.labml.ai>
- [vdumoulin/conv_arithmetic](https://github.com/vdumoulin/conv_arithmetic): A
  technical report on convolution arithmetic in the context of deep learning
- [How GPT3 Works - Visualizations and Animations](https://jalammar.github.io/how-gpt3-works-visualizations-animations/)
- [learn-anything/research-papers](https://github.com/learn-anything/research-papers):
  Awesome Research Papers
- [mli/paper-reading](https://github.com/mli/paper-reading): 深度学习经典、新论
  文逐段精读
- [dataflowr/notebooks](https://github.com/dataflowr/notebooks): code for deep
  learning courses <http://www.dataflowr.com/>
- [bgavran/Category_Theory_Machine_Learning](https://github.com/bgavran/Category_Theory_Machine_Learning):
  List of papers studying machine learning through the lens of category theory
- [datawhalechina/leedl-tutorial](https://github.com/datawhalechina/leedl-tutorial):
  《李宏毅深度学习教程》
- [强化学习 100 题 - by 斎藤 康毅 (Koki Saitoh)](https://p100.koki-saitoh.com/zh-CN)
- [xiaolincoder/CS-Base](https://github.com/xiaolincoder/CS-Base): 图解计算机网
  络、操作系统、计算机组成、数据库，共 1000 张图 + 50 万字，破除晦涩难懂的计算机
  基础知识，让天下没有难懂的八股文！🚀 <https://xiaolincoding.com>

## Books

- [probml/pml-book](https://github.com/probml/pml-book): "Probabilistic Machine
  Learning" - a book series by Kevin Murphy
  https://probml.github.io/pml-book/book2.html
- [mml-book/mml-book.github.io](https://github.com/mml-book/mml-book.github.io):
  Companion webpage to the book "Mathematics For Machine Learning"
  [pdf download](https://mml-book.com)
- [CamDavidsonPilon/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers](https://github.com/CamDavidsonPilon/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers):
  aka "Bayesian Methods for Hackers": An introduction to Bayesian methods +
  probabilistic programming with a computation/understanding-first,
  mathematics-second point of view. All in pure Python ;)
  - [page](http://camdavidsonpilon.github.io/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers/)
- [AllenDowney/ThinkComplexity2](https://github.com/AllenDowney/ThinkComplexity2):
  Book and code for Think Complexity, 2nd edition
  - [page](https://allendowney.github.io/ThinkComplexity2/)
- [Probabilistic Numerics](https://www.probabilistic-numerics.org/textbooks/)
- [Convex Optimization](https://web.stanford.edu/~boyd/cvxbook/): A MOOC on
  convex optimization, CVX101. If you register for it, you can access all the
  course materials. More material can be found at the web sites for EE364A
  (Stanford) or EE236B (UCLA), and our own web pages.
- 🌟 [udlbook/udlbook](https://github.com/udlbook/udlbook): Understanding Deep
  Learning - Simon J.D. Prince
- [nndl/nndl.github.io](https://github.com/nndl/nndl.github.io): 《神经网络与深
  度学习》 邱锡鹏著 Neural Network and Deep Learning <https://nndl.github.io/>
- [Visualize-ML/Book3_Fundamentals-of-Mathematics](https://github.com/Visualize-ML/Book3_Fundamentals-of-Mathematics):
  《数学要素》，清华社五审五校中；Github 稿件基本稳定，欢迎提意见，会及时修改
- [kenjihiranabe/The-Art-of-Linear-Algebra](https://github.com/kenjihiranabe/The-Art-of-Linear-Algebra):
  Graphic notes on Gilbert Strang's "Linear Algebra for Everyone"
- [Linear Algebra Done Right](https://linear.axler.net/): This best-selling
  textbook for a second course in linear algebra is aimed at undergraduate math
  majors and graduate students. The novel approach taken here banishes
  determinants to the end of the book. The text focuses on the central goal of
  linear algebra: understanding the structure of linear operators on
  finite-dimensional vector spaces.

## Novel approaches

- [janosh/awesome-normalizing-flows](https://github.com/janosh/awesome-normalizing-flows):
  Awesome resources on normalizing flows.
- 🌟 [lmcinnes/umap](https://github.com/lmcinnes/umap): Uniform Manifold
  Approximation and Projection

### Workshop

- [Differentiable Almost Everything: Differentiable Relaxations, Algorithms, Operators, and Simulators](https://differentiable.xyz)
- [Structured Probabilistic Inference and Generative Modeling](https://icml.cc/virtual/2023/workshop/21469)

### PDE / ODE

- [microsoft/pdearena](https://github.com/microsoft/pdearena): A modern,
  scalable, and easy to use PDE Surrogate Benchmarking Framework.
  <https://microsoft.github.io/pdearena>
- 🌟
  [Zymrael/awesome-neural-ode](https://github.com/Zymrael/awesome-neural-ode): A
  collection of resources regarding the interplay between differential
  equations, deep learning, dynamical systems, control and numerical methods.

## Misc

- [gpoore/minted](https://github.com/gpoore/minted): minted is a LaTeX package
  that provides syntax highlighting using the Pygments library. Highlighted
  source code can be customized using fancyvrb.
- [roaldarbol/LaPreprint](https://github.com/roaldarbol/LaPreprint): 📝 A nicely
  formatted LaTeX preprint template
- [citation-js/citation-js](https://github.com/citation-js/citation-js): Core
  functionality of Citation.js, as well as the original plugins (CSL, BibTeX,
  RIS, DOI, Wikidata, and BibJSON) <https://citation.js.org>
- [typst/typst](https://github.com/typst/typst): A new markup-based typesetting
  system that is powerful and easy to learn. <https://typst.app>
- [nvarner/typst-lsp](https://github.com/nvarner/typst-lsp): A brand-new
  language server for Typst, plus a VS Code extension
- [google/latexify_py](https://github.com/google/latexify_py): Generates LaTeX
  math description from Python functions.
- [papis/papis](https://github.com/papis/papis): Powerful and highly extensible
  command-line based document and bibliography manager.
  <http://papis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>
- [wklchris/Note-by-LaTeX](https://github.com/wklchris/Note-by-LaTeX): 《简单粗
  暴 LaTeX》出版图书开源仓库 | The opensource repo for my published LaTeX book.
- [jlegewie/zotfile](https://github.com/jlegewie/zotfile): Zotero plugin to
  manage your attachments: automatically rename, move, and attach PDFs (or other
  files) to Zotero items, sync PDFs from your Zotero library to your (mobile)
  PDF reader (e.g. an iPad, Android tablet, etc.), and extract PDF annotations.
